









Assocn. Of Vasanth Appts. Owners vs V. Gopinanth And Ors. on 13 February, 2023



Share Link
Mobile View



Premium Members
Advanced Search
Case Removal








 Cites 132 docs 
      
        - [View All]
      
      
The Constitution Of India   1949
The Land Acquisition Act, 1894
Article 31 in The Constitution Of India   1949
Article 14 in The Constitution Of India   1949
Section 37 in The Land Acquisition Act, 1894
 Citedby 0 docs
      
      
Merene Alex vs The Government Of Tamil Nadu on 13 September, 2019
J.Amsaveni vs The State Of Tamil Nadu on 24 April, 2023

















Warning on Translation





Take notes as you read a judgment using our Virtual Legal Assistant and get email alerts whenever a new judgment matches your query (Query Alert Service). Try out our Premium Member services -- Free for one month.

Supreme Court of India
Assocn. Of Vasanth Appts. Owners vs V. Gopinanth And Ors. on 13 February, 2023Author: K.M. Joseph
Bench: K.M. Joseph, B.V. Nagarathna
                                                                 REPORTABLE

                                 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
                             CIVIL APPELLATE/ORIGINAL JURISDICTION
                                 CIVIL APPEAL No. 1890-91 of 2010


          ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’
          OWNERS                                                 …APPELLANT(S)


                                               VERSUS


          V. GOPINATH & ORS.                                     …RESPONDENT(S)
                                                WITH
                                   CIVIL APPEAL NO. 7334 OF 2013
                                CIVIL APPEAL NO. 7847-7848 OF 2013
                                WRIT PETITION (CIVIL) No.591 of 2015


                                            JUDGMENT

          K.M. JOSEPH, J.


          1.             Civil Appeal Nos. 1890-91 of 2010 is connected with

          the other cases. We are disposing of the Appeals and

          the            Writ    Petition   filed   under   Article   32,   having
Signature Not Verified


          generated certain common issues by the following common
Digitally signed by
Nidhi Ahuja
Date: 2023.02.13
17:59:15 IST
Reason:


          Judgment.

                                                                                1
                                               INDEX

ABOUT THE CASES AND THE PARTIES ........................................................ 3
  The case of Association of Vasanth Apartments Owners ......................... 3
  The case of Keyaram Hotels Pvt. Ltd. ....................................................... 8
  CREDAI; Writ Petition No. 591/15 under Article 32.................................. 19
SUBMISSIONS OF APPELLANTS/PETITIONER ............................................ 22
SUBMISSIONS OF SHRI N. SUBRAMANIYAN, ADVOCATE IN C.A. 7334 OF
2013 [KEYARAM HOTELS P. LIMITED] ....................................................... 25
SUBMISSIONS OF MS. V. MOHANA, SENIOR ADVOCATE ON BEHALF OF
THE WRIT PETITOINER IN WRIT PETITION (CIVIL) NO. 591 OF 2015. ....... 29
SUBMISSIONS OF SHRI AMIT ANAND TIWARI; ADDITIONAL A.G. ON
BEHALF OF STATE OF TAMIL NADU AND ‘CMDA’. ..................................... 35
SUBMISSIONS MADE BY SRI JAYANTH MUTHRAJ, SENIOR ADVOCATE
RESPONDENTS NOS. 1 AND 2 IN C.A. NO. 1890 OF 2010. ......................... 44
SUBMISSIONS BY SHRI K.S. SURESH, ADVOCATE IN CIVIL APPEAL
NO.7848 OF 2013 ........................................................................................ 46
ANALYSIS ................................................................................................... 47
THE GIFT DEED IN VASANTH APARTMENTS CASE ................................... 82
WHETHER THE IMPUGNED RULE VIOLATES ARTICLE 14 OF THE
CONSTITUTION? IS IT DISCRIMINATORY? ................................................ 86
IS THE IMPUGNED RULE/ REGULATION ULTRA VIRES? ............................ 91
THE IMPACT OF SECTIONS 36 AND 37 ...................................................... 95
IS THE IMPUGNED RULE/REGULATION BAD FOR THE REASON THAT IT IS
CONTRARY TO THE MANDATE OF SECTION 39 OF THE ACT? ................ 100
THE IMPACT OF SECTIONS 48 TO 55 ....................................................... 108
THE RIGHTS REGIME ................................................................................ 114
DOWN MEMORY LANE .............................................................................. 134
  PT. CHET RAM VASHIST (DEAD) BY LRS. V. MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
  OF DELHI ................................................................................................ 134
  T. VIJAYALAKSHMI AND OTHERS V. TOWN PLANNING MEMBER AND
  ANOTHER ............................................................................................... 137
  PUNE MUNICIPAL CORPORATION AND ANOTHER V. PROMOTERS AND
  BUILDERS ASSOCIATION AND ANOTHER ............................................. 138

                                                                                                            2
  TUKARAM KANA JOSHI AND OTHERS V. MAHARASHTRA INDUSTRIAL
  DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION AND OTHERS ...................................... 140
  JILUBHAI NANBHAI KHACHAR AND OTHERS V. STATE OF GUJARAT
  AND ANOTHER ....................................................................................... 142
  STATE OF GUJARAT V. SHANTILAL MANGALDAS AND OTHERS ......... 142
  NARAYANRAO JAGOBAJI GOWANDE PUBLIC TRUST V. STATE OF
  MAHARASHTRA AND OTHERS ............................................................... 148
  YOGENDRA PAL AND OTHERS V. MUNICIPALITY, BATHINDA AND
  ANOTHER ............................................................................................... 151
  VIRENDER GAUR AND OTHERS V. STATE OF HARYANA AND OTHERS 154
A BRIEF LOOK AT THE FIFTH AMENDMENT CASES IN THE UNITED
STATES ..................................................................................................... 176
ENTRY 42 OF LIST III OF THE SEVENTH SCHEDULE ............................... 191
THE UPSHOT OF THE ABOVE DISCUSSION ............................................. 242




ABOUT THE CASES AND THE PARTIES
The case of Association of Vasanth Apartments
Owners


2.      Civil Appeal Nos. 1890-91 of 2010 is directed

against the judgment dated 19.10.2007 rendered by a

division bench of the High Court. Writ Appeal No. 478

of 2007 and Writ Appeal No. 1026 of 2007 were appeals

generated by the judgment which was rendered by the

learned Single Judge, in Writ Petition No. 4766 of 2007

dated 20.02.2007. By the same the learned Single Judge

allowed the writ petition filed by the writ petitioners

                                                                                                             3
who are the appellants before us. It was interalia

their case that they were owners of certain apartments

situated in a complex which consisted of 12 blocks. The

total area of the layout was more than 10,000 sq.

metres. A portion of the land was earmarked in terms

of     Rule    19        of   the         Development      Control      Rules

(hereinafter         referred        to    as    ‘DCR’)    as    Open   Space

Regulation area (hereinafter referred to as ‘OSR’). A

gift    deed       was   executed         in    favour    of    the   Chennai

Metropolitan         Development           Authority      on    18.02.1994.

However, despite the lapse of 12 years of the gift, the

OSR area had not been developed into a park. The learned

Single Judge disposed of the writ petition by directing

the appellant association to maintain the open space

area    as     a    park      with    recreational         facilities     in

accordance with the ‘DCR’. It was also made clear that

it is always open to the respondents to take action in

accordance with law if there is any violation. It was

found to be the duty of the respondents to maintain

such open areas as parks and on there being a failure

on their part, the association of the residents should

be welcomed to do the same subject to the rules. Writ

                                                                           4
Appeal no. 478 of 2007 was filed by one Shri Gopinath

and others. They were persons who were living in the

neighbourhood. Writ Appeal no. 1026 of 2007 was filed

by the Commissioner of the Corporation of Chennai and

the   Member   Secretary   of   the   Chennai   Metropolitan

Development Authority (hereinafter referred to as the

‘CMDA’). It was by the judgment impugned in Civil

Appeal Nos. 1890-91 of 2010, the division bench allowed

the Writ Appeals and set aside the judgment of the

learned Single Judge. We notice the following findings

and relief granted: -


      “17. When the land has been assigned in the
      year 1994 in favour of the CMDA by way of the
      Gift Deed, neither the CMDA nor the Corporation
      of Chennai have taken any step to make use of
      the land for the interest of public. It is
      clear from the report filed by the Advocate-
      Commissioner and the photographs filed before
      us and the other materials available on record
      that in the OSR area, there is a katcha road,
      which is said to have been laid by the
      Corporation in the year 2003. Probably because
      of this katcha road and the usage of the same
      as road by all the residents in the locality,
      the occupants of the Vasanth Apartments might
      have felt disturbance, which would have
      prompted them to make a representation to the
      Corporation to develop a park in the said area
      or in the alternative to permit them to develop
      and maintain a park for their recreational
      purpose besides illegally constructing a
      compound wall, separating the petrol bunk and
                                                          5
the compound wall for about a length of 30 feet
separating the unbridged 11 feet wide open
canal upto ground level, so as to close the
way once and for all. At this juncture, it is
to be pointed out that the Vasanth Apartments
is divided by a compound wall from this area
and it is It also not made clear by the Vasanth
Apartments Owners Association that the said
land, which was gifted to the CMDA, is part of
their lay out.”

“18. It has also been alleged that under
similar circumstances, the CMDA has permitted
all the residents associations in Velachery to
maintain the open spaces as recreational parks
in the nearby area viz. K.G.Apartments, Sai
Sarovar etc. Each case has to be viewed and
decided on its own merits and since in the case
on hand, in the interest of thousands of
general public residing in and around the area,
the authorities have taken a wise decision to
lay a road to have easy and immediate access
to the 100 ft. road, the same cannot be found
fault with.”

“19. Further more, it has been brought to our
notice that with a view to form connecting road
to 100 feet bye-pass road, the Chennai
Corporation   has    already    addressed   the
Commissioner, Hindu Religious and Charitable
Endowments Department to transfer and convey
the land belonging to Arulmigu Dhandeeswarar
Temple, Velachery, Chennai in favour of the
Corporation and also obtained the said land to
form the connecting road from Hindu Religious
and Charitable Endowments Department.”

“20. Thus, though belatedly, now the CMDA and
the Corporation of Chennai are taking all
efforts to lay a pucca road in the OSR area
for the convenience of nearly one lakh people
in the area including the residents of Vasanth
Apartments. In this city, ill-famous for its
bumper to bumper traffic and the related
                                                  6
      hazards faced by the road users day in and day
      out, any such step taken by the civic
      authorities to ease such bottleneck traffic
      congestions should be appreciated and welcomed
      without allowing anybody to put spokes in the
      wheel of development, as /3 has been attempted
      on the part of the Association of Vasanth
      Apartments Owners in the case on hand.

          For all the above reasons, since it has
      been found that the writ petitioner has no
      right or interest, whatsoever, in the OSR land,
      and the prayer in the writ petition itself is
      misconceived, both these writ appeals are
      allowed, thus setting aside the order passed
      by the learned single Judge. No costs.
      Consequently, M.P.No.2 of 2007 in W.A.No.1026
      of 2007 is closed.”


3.    C.A. No. 7847-48 of 2013 arising out of SLP (C)No.

25709-25710 of 2011 is again filed by the Association

of Vasanth Apartments’ Owners i.e., the appellants in

C.A. No. 1890-91 of 2010. This is a separate litigation

though having a bearing on the issue. In this appeal,

Writ Petition No. 23397 of 2007 came to be filed by the

appellant Association challenging the vires of Rule 19

of the ‘DCR’ under which a gift had to be executed in

respect of the land comprised in 10% as we shall see

in   greater   detail.   The   Writ   Petition,   came   to   be

dismissed by the division bench by its judgment dated

06.03.2008 and it upheld the validity of the rule. C.A.

                                                              7
No. 7847 of 2013 is filed against the same. A review

filed turned unsuccessful. The order in the review has

led to the appeal, C.A. No. 7848 of 2013.


The case of Keyaram Hotels Pvt. Ltd.


4.     Writ Petition no. 11934 of 1995 brings in the next

appeal which is C.A. No. 7334 of 2013. The above writ

petition was filed by M/s. Keyaram Hotel Pvt. Ltd. The

challenge in the said writ petition was to the very

same rule.

5.     The    case    set   up   in    short      is   as    follows.      The

petitioners are the owners of about 62 grounds. It

applied for the sanction of a building plan in the year

1975    for    the     construction          of   a    hotel.      There    is

reference to an earlier writ petition and contempt

proceeding.          Suffice     it    to    notice,        that   planning

permission was granted after a delay of 12 years on

08.09.1992. It is their case that it was faced with

certain difficulties in the construction. A revised

plan was submitted and building permission was sought

for on 17.08.1994 for the construction of a hotel and

hotel    annexe       building        etc.   which     consisted      of     a

                                                                            8
basement, ground floor and three further floors. By

letter dated 13.09.1994 issued by the second respondent

the petitioner was to gift the open space reserved area

to the Commissioner Corporation of Madras. We may

notice     further    that      the    third       respondent      sent

communication on 01.12.1994. It is stated inter alia

that the structure which existed within the OSR area

should be demolished after due sanction and that the

OSR land should be free from any structure and be fenced

by providing separate entrance from the road side.

There is no mention about the gift deed. The petitioner

sought a month’s time to comply with the conditions in

letter     dated    01.12.1994.       However,      the    respondent

insisted      on   compliance     with       the    requirement     of

executing a gift deed. In the writ petition, an interim

Order dated 13.03.1996 was passed directing permission

after recording undertaking by petitioner to execute

gift   deed    without   prejudice      to    the    rights   of   the

petitioner.        Petitioner     executed          gift    deed    on

22.05.1996. Petitioner’s revised plan was approved as

a group development on 24.04.1999. The grounds urged

against the rule appear to be as follows:

                                                                     9
1. The    rule     is    an    illegal          infraction    of     the

  petitioner’s right to hold and enjoy the property.

2. The rule is contrary to the Act and derogatory to

  the interest of the land owners.

3. The stipulation is violative of the civil right

  vested in every owner of the property to hold his

  land and the right to safeguard public interest

  cannot be stretched to create a right and title in

  favour of a local body in the manner contemplated

  by the respondents 1 and 2.                   It could only impose

  a condition to keep such land as open for being

  used    by     the    user   of    such       building   for     their

  communal or recreational purpose.

4. The provision for open space with respect to a

  special        building      is        for    the     communal    and

  recreational purposes of the people who shared

  their     accommodation           in    the    said    building    or

  otherwise lawfully use the same. It is not intended

  to take away the proprietary right of the owners.

  The expression of willingness by the petitioner to

  provide the stipulated open space reserved for

  communal and recreational use of the occupiers will

                                                                     10
       satisfy the public interest and object of the

       legislation. Petitioners undertake to keep 10% of

       the area to be developed excluding roads as open

       space for communal and recreational purpose.

     5. The further condition imposed by the 3rd respondent

       to provide exclusive frontage for the said open

       space   area   opening   into     the   main     road   is

       unconscionable in law and contrary to the spirit

       of the Act. Such stipulation is in terrorum.

The relief sought is to declare Rule 19(b)(I)(v) of the

DCR    void.   That   apart   sanction    is   sought    without

insisting on the rule.

6.     We may notice the relevant contents of the counter

affidavit filed by the respondent State. The case set

up inter alia is that the CMDA had carried out necessary

survey and prepared the master plan which lays down

policies and programmes which are necessary to regulate

the growth of the area and also to ensure its economic

viability, social stability and sound management for

the present and the foreseeable future and orderly

development required the same. The DCR was an integral

part of the master plan. Any person wanting to develop

                                                               11
a property within the Metropolitan area must apply for

permission and the CMDA is empowered to enforce such

conditions and restrictions as was necessary under the

rules. It is in public interest. If the ownership of

the open OSR area were to be allowed to vest with the

original land owner, then the concerned owner would

have a chance to convert the same for construction, the

area specially reserved as open space, for communal

recreation by suppressing the said fact after passage

of time. Hence, it is necessary that the open space

area should be vested with the civil authorities who

are responsible for maintenance of parks and play

fields in the sites. The open space reservation is

provided to create lung space in the city and to have

sufficient open space for the use of society.

7.   A counter affidavit was filed by the Chief Planner

of the CMDA and the stand taken was to seek support

under Section 17 of the Act read with Section 49. The

impugned Rule has been also referred to. As regards the

facts, it is stated as follows: -


     “Para 5. petitioner submitted the application
     on 17 .08.1994 for planning Permission for the

                                                      12
proposed    construction   of    Hotel   Complex
consisting of group of two massive blocks of
Basement plus ground plus three floors building
and four small buildings at D.No.l & 2,
Harrington road, Chetput, Madras - 31 in
R.S.No.355 of Nungambakkam Village. The total
floor area of the Hotel Buildings is about
13,300 M2. The extent of the site is about
10692 M2. In the plan submitted by the
petitioner    there   are    certain    existing
structures also, which are to be demolished for
the   construction of the       proposed hotel
buildings consisting of basement plus ground
plus three floors, after demolishing the
existing structures. In the plan submitted by
the petitioner he has also shown the area to
be reserved and handed over as open space
reservation. As the proposal of the petitioner
consists of group of two blocks of basement
plus ground plus three floors buildings in a
site of an extent of more than 10,000 M2, the
same was examined by this respondent under
Development Control Rules 19 (b) (II) (1) to
(V) and (VI) - C related to group development.
While the Development Control rule l9(b)(II)
(1) to (v) deals with the open spaces to be
left around the buildings, distance to be
maintained between the buildings etc, the rule
l9(b)(II) (VI-C) prescribes as following:
"C) SITE EXTENT above 10,000 m2
    10 percent of the area excluding roads
    shall be reserved and this space shall be
    transferred to the authority or to the
    local body designated by it, free of cost,
    through a deed. It is obligatory to reserve
    the 10 percent of the site area and no
    charges can be accepted in lieu, m case of
    new developments or redevelopments "

The second respondent examined the planning
permission application of the petitioner and
having satisfied with the plans with reference
to the Development Control Rules and in View
of the fact that the petitioner already
                                                   13
earmarked 1070 m2 being the 10 % open Space
Reservation area in the plan, sent a letter in
No.82/17789/94, dated 13.09.1194 stipulating
certain   conditions    and   requesting,   the
petitioner to,
i) pay the following charges
a) Development charges: Rs. 82,000/-
b) Security Deposit
for the building: Rs. 8, 00, 000/-
ii) hand over the 10% Open Space Reservation
Area reserved and shown in the plan to the
third respondent through a registered gift
deed.
The petitioner has not paid the security
Deposit, but however obtained a direction from
this Hon'ble Court to accept the Bank Guarantee
towards the security Deposit and furnished the
same to the second respondent along with his
consent letter dated 28.02.1995 accepting the
conditions stipulated in letter No. 82/ 17789
/94, dated 13.09.1994. In the said letter dated
13.09.1994 of the second respondent, one of the
condition is that the petitioner should hand
over the 10% Open Space Reservation Area to the
Commissioner, Corporation of Madras, free of
cost, through a· registered gift deed, which
is a lawful condition under Development Control
Rule 19 (b)(II) (VI - C). It is respectfully
denied that the petitioner has not made any
representation to relax the condition of
gifting of the Open Space Reservation Area and
the same was never under the consideration of
the second respondent.”

“Para 7. It is submitted that the second
respondent has requested the petitioner to
transfer the 10% Open Space Reservation Area
free of cost, through a registered gift deed
in favour of the third respondent as per the
provisions of Development Control Rules 19 (b)
(II) (VI - C), under group development
regulations and not as contended by the
petitioner under rule 19 (b) (I) (V), which

                                                  14
related to special Buildings. The Development
Control Rule 19 (b) (II) (VI - C) is as follows:

"C) SITE EXTENT above 10,000 m2
   10 percent. of the area excluding roads
   shall be reserved and this space shall be
   transferred to the authority or to the
   local body designated by it, free of cost,
   through a deed. It is obligatory to reserve
   the 10 percent of the site area and no
   charges can be accepted in lieu, in case of
   new developments or redevelopments"

Explanation: -

   (3) The land so reserved shall be free from
   any construction by the owner or promoter
   or developer. The land for communal and
   recreational purposes shall be restricted
   at ground level in a shape and location to
   be specified by the MMDA"

The Development Control Rule is the integral
part of the Master Plan and was framed under
section 17 of the Town and Country Planning
Act. The second respondent exercised the power
vested in it, since the total extent of the
petitioner's site is more than 10,000 m2, the
insisting of the requirements of reservation
of 10 % Open Space Reservation Area and
consequent direction to the petitioner to hand
over the same to the third respondent through
a registered gift deed as per Development
Control Rules 19(b)(II) (VI- C) is well within
the jurisdiction of the second respondent.”

“Para 8. The petitioner is challenging the
concept of reserving the 10 % area for open
space and recreational purposes. This is a
statutory   requirement   under   Development
Control Rule 19 (b) (ii) (vi - c) for all the
proposals of group development, where the
extent of the site is more than 10,000 m2.
Further the city is fastly developing and
                                                   15
individual houses are being demolished and
multi family apartments are constructed in the
same site where there was only one family
residing therein earlier. The intense vertical
developments make the city more dense demanding
more water, pollution free air, noise free
atmosphere etc. The city is already over
congested and therefore more open spaces have
to be created wherever new developments or
redevelopment takes place. The open spaces so
created serve as long space to the city
benefiting the community at large. The open
space enable to make the environment clean and
provide fresh air, besides facilitating the
ground water recharge in a city where water
scarcity is a perennial problem.”

“Para 9. The petitioner has also questioned the
transfer of open space reservation in favour
of the Madras Corporation. It is submitted that
in practice, the developers take up the
development of properties and construct the
buildings providing necessary open spaces as
per    Development    Control   Rules.    After
completion of the construction they sell out
the building in portions to various persons and
later the open space reserved become no man's
land without any care for its maintenance. If
the ownership of the open space reservation for
communal and recreational purpose, suppressing
the facts later, after passage of time.
Therefore, it is essential that the ownership
of the open Space Reservation area should be
vested with the civic authority, which is
responsible for the maintenance of the parks
and play fields in the city. The civic
authority is maintaining many parks and play
grounds such as Elliot's Beach Garden, Anna
Nagar, Thiru Vi Ka park etc. Which are
maintained very well. It is also therefore
essential that the open Space Reservation Area
should be located in a location shape and size
which is accessible from the public road not
only to the Civic Authority but also to the
                                                  16
general   public   without   any   restriction.
Therefore, transferring the OSR area to the
Civic body will not amount to talking away the
rights of the property owner and it is intended
for the benefit of the community at large.”

“Para 10. In the case of the petitioner, it is
submitted that the 10 % Open Space Reservation
Area is very close to his hotel buildings.
Therefore, if the ownership were to be vested
with the petitioner, it is most likely to be
misused by the petitioner for Hotel related
activities, rather than allowing it to the use
of general public. It is also likely that over
a period of the time the OSR area would be
misused   for  commercial   purposes  by   the
petitioner under the guise of improving it.

The petitioner has also expressed that the
maintenance of the 10 % Open Space Reservation
Area will be done by him. It is submitted that
the entrusting the maintenance of the Open
Space Reservation area is at the discretion of
the   second   and  third   respondents.   The
development Control Rule 19 (a) (II) (Vii)
prescribes as follows:

" The authority reserves the right to enforce
the maintenance of such reserved land by the
owner to the satisfaction of the Authority or
order the owner to transfer the land to the
authority or local body designated by it, free
of cost, through a deed, to the Authority or
the local body designated by the authority as
case may be, reserve the right to dedicate on
entrusting the maintenance work to institution
/ individual o merits of the case.

It is submitted that as per the provisions of
the Development Control Rule 19 (b) (II) (Vii)
this second respondent reserves the right to
decide on entrusting the maintenance of OSR
area to the petitioner. It become the bounden

                                                  17
     duty of the state Government to safeguard the
     interest of the public at large and the state
     government have the statutory power and have
     approved the development control rules as an
     integral part of the master plan for the
     benefit of the public and to enforce it
     accordingly. Therefore, the reservation of 10%
     OSR area in a statutory requirement. Under the
     above said circumstances the petitioner is not
     deprived of their right of enjoyment of the
     properly by implementing of the rules framed
     under the Town and Country Planning Act. The
     writ petition is devoid of merits and the same
     has to be dismissed in limini.

     Therefore, it is prayed that this Hon’ble Court
     may be pleased to pass an order by dismissing
     the writ petition and thus render justice”.
                                (Emphasis supplied)

8.   The Corporation of Madras also filed a counter

affidavit. Therein it was inter alia stated that the

OSR land should have access from a public street as per

which the development authority directed the petitioner

to execute the gift deed to the Corporation as it had

to be used for communal and recreation purpose. In the

reply affidavit, the petitioner took the stand that the

impugned rule does not fall under Section 17. The OSR

under the Act is only an amenity for the benefit of the

property owner. The rule was projected as an executive

order falling beyond the Act. Any misuse could be dealt

with under the law.

                                                       18
CREDAI; Writ Petition No. 591/15 under Article 32
9.    The    last   of the   litigation   with   which we   are

concerned is Writ Petition no. 591 of 2015. This is a

writ petition sought to be maintained under Article 32.

The writ petition has been filed by an association

which the petitioner describes as the Confederation of

the   Real    Estates   Developers   Association     of   India

(CREDAI).

10. This petition is filed under Article 32 of the

Constitution of India. It is filed by a Federation of

registered Association claiming to be an Apex body of

the organised union and state real estate developers,

builders across India. In the Additional affidavit

filed, it is contended that the total number of members

of Petitioner is 350 and that of Chennai Chapter is 163

members. The relief sought in the writ petition is as

follows:


      “(a) allow the present writ petition and issue
      a writ of Certiorari quashing Regulation
      29(7)(a) (at pg.221 Vol. 2) as well as Annexure
      XX (at pgs.293-294 Vol. 2) of the Development
      Regulations for Chennai Metropolitan Area
      issued by the Respondent No.2 as being ultra

                                                            19
       vires, unconstitutional and violative of the
       fundamental rights of the Petitioner; and”


11. However,          in    the      additional    affidavit       filed    on

8.12.2021, we may notice paragraph 4.


       “4. That, in so far as challenge to Regulation
       29(7)(a) in the present writ petition is
       concerned, the petitioner is restricting its
       challenge only to the latter part of the
       provision i.e., the requirement to transfer
       free of cost through a registered gift deed,
       10% area reserved for recreational purposes
       only and not the space set apart for roads.”


12. We     may      notice       the   grounds     taken    in    the     writ

petition.        It    is       contended    that    by     the       impugned

regulations         there       is   expropriation     of    the      private

property       of     the       petitioner’s      members    Association.

Reliance is placed on the judgment in Chet Ram Vashist

(Dead)    by     LRs       v.    Municipal   corporation         of    Delhi1.

Support is drawn from Article 300A. It is sought to be

contended that allowing use of the OSR Area amounts to

a blatant exercise of the power of eminent domain.

Transfer of property of the petitioner is sought to be

achieved through the impugned regulation. In fact, in



1
    (1995) 1 SCC 47
                                                                           20
ground (i), it is submitted that expropriation of land

is possible at best by way of plenary legislation and

the impugned regulation not being such a legislation,

it is vulnerable. The impugned regulation is contrary

to    the   Act.    The     Act    regulates    the       land    use.    The

authorities under the Act cannot change the user of a

land. In other words, the point is that allowing use

of area meant for recreational purpose by the members

of the general public is expropriatory and contrary to

the    Act.    It     is    also    contended    that      the     impugned

regulation is unreasonable and disproportionate.

13. We have heard Shri Gopal Sankaranarayanan, learned

Senior Counsel on behalf of the appellants in C.A. No.

7847   of     2013.    We    also    heard    Shri    N    Subramaniyan,

learned counsel on behalf of M/s. Keyaram Hotel Pvt.

Ltd. (C.A. No. 7334 of 2013). We further heard Smt. V.

Mohana learned senior counsel on behalf of the writ

petitioner (writ petition no. 591 of 2015). We also

heard the learned counsel on behalf of the appellants

in C.A. No. 1890-91 of 2010. We further heard the

learned       counsel       Shri    K.S.     Suresh       on     behalf    of

Association of Vasanth Apartments’ Owners which has in

                                                                          21
C.A. No. 7848 of 2013 challenged the judgment rejecting

the   review     petition      filed        in   the    writ   petition

unsuccessfully challenging the rule.

14. We   heard       Shri    Sanjay    R.    Hegde     learned    senior

counsel on behalf of the corporation of Chennai and

heard Shri Amit Anand Tiwari, AAG on behalf of the

Government of Tamil Nādu and also the CMDA. We finally

heard Shri JayanthMuth Raj, learned Senior Counsel on

behalf of the appellants in Writ Appeal no. 478 of 2007

who are the persons residing in the area and whose writ

appeal stood allowed by the High Court.


SUBMISSIONS OF APPELLANTS/PETITIONER


15. In Civil Appeal Nos. 7847 of 2013, Shri Gopal

Sankaranarayanan would contend that a compelled gift

attracted      the     wrath     of     Article         300A     of   the

Constitution.        There     was     clearly         deprivation    of

property. It was without the authority of law. It was

without the authority of law because ‘DCR’ was not

statutory in nature, having been made by the CMDA

without any provision enabling it to make statutory

rules. The power to make rules was vested with the

                                                                      22
State Government under Section 122 of the Tamil Nadu

Town & Country Planning Act, 1971 (hereinafter referred

to   as   the    ‘Act’).     Section    9C    relied   upon   by   the

respondents did not clothe the authority with power to

make rules. Equally, Section 17 would not come to the

aid of the respondents. Therefore, the rule was not law

within the meaning of Article 300A. There is no law

made      by    the     competent       legislature      empowering

deprivation of the property of the appellants.

16. Even a law made by the legislature could not result

in the deprivation of property in the manner which is

purported to be achieved through what is described as

a rule which in fact is not a statutory rule. It is his

contention that the survey of the Act would reveal that

wherever       the    land   is   reserved,     the    lawgiver    has

contemplated that the land should be acquired. The

concept of acquisition is traced to Entry 42 of List

III of Part VII of the Constitution. In other words,

unless land is acquired under the relevant law which

undoubtedly      involves     payment    of    compensation    there

would be no justification in law to compel a person to

part with his property by what is described as a

                                                                   23
compelled gift. There is no compensation payable under

the gift admittedly. Therefore, this amounts to the

execution of the gift which is a direct result of the

rule which so mandated the execution of the gift. It

is clearly expropriatory. The law at any rate, it is

contended that is, the impugned rule, is palpably and

manifestly arbitrary. Similar arguments have, no doubt,

been addressed by the other learned senior counsel

appearing on behalf of both the appellants and the writ

petitioner.     There     are   various   other     ancillary

submissions which had been taken up.

17. There is also a further case that the rule falls

foul of Article 14 for another reason. It is complained

that the rule produces classification which is not

permitted under Article 14. In other words, it is

pointed out that for layout upto 3,000 sq. metres,

there is no requirement to execute a gift. In respect

of layout which is in excess of 3,000 sq. metres and

which is less than 10,000 sq. metres, there is no such

requirement and in place of a gift, it is open to the

proponent of the project to give the equivalent value.

It   is   without   any   rational   basis,   and   therefore,

                                                           24
attracting        the   vice     of    class        legislation       or

unreasonable classification resulting in equals being

treated     differently,       that   in   respect       of    projects

involving more than 10,000 square metres, the builder

is bound to execute a gift in favour of the authority.


SUBMISSIONS OF SHRI N. SUBRAMANIYAN,
ADVOCATE IN C.A. 7334 OF 2013 [KEYARAM
HOTELS P. LIMITED]

18. In     this   case,   the    appellant     is    the      owner   and

continues to be the owner of the layout area. The gift

was effected as per an undertaking given to the High

Court but subject to the Writ Petition. Secondly, there

is no laches or delay. Immediately as the condition was

sought to be imposed, the Writ Petition was filed in

the year 1995. At best, Rule 19 can be only a Statutory

Order/Notification/        Guideline       and      it     cannot     be

considered more than a Subordinate Legislation. Relying

on the principles laid down for impugning Subordinate

Legislation in State of Tamil Nadu v. P. Krishnamurthy2,

it is contended that the Rule, Rule 19(b)(2)(vi)(c)



2   (2006) 4 SCC 517
                                                                      25
violates      Sections   36     to   39.    Harmoniously      reading

Section 17 and Section 20 and Sections 36 to 39 of the

Act, would establish that the reserved lands (made for

open    spaces)    under      Section      17(2)(k)   and     Section

20(1)(k),     should     be   acquired      within    three   years,

failing which, the lands shall get reverted to the

owner. In the case of regulating the use of lands, such

as putting restrictions on the use of land under Section

17(2)(l) and Section 20(1)(n), within the planning

area, do not call for compensation. Section 17(2)(b),

as also Sections 21(1)(k) and (n) relating to detailed

development plans, are the only provisions dealing with

the open spaces. Proviso to Section 39(1) require the

respondents to pay compensation for all items, except

the    matters    that   fall    under     Section    17(2)(l)    and

Section 20(n), again, both of which are regulatory.

Sections 48, 49 and 52 to 54 are projected to contend

that    the    object    of   the    Act    is   to   regulate    the

development and not to deprive land. Sections 52 to 54

also mandate, payment of compensation. Exceptions to

the ’Pay compensation’ principle, involve cases, where

there is no mandate to reserve land for public purposes.

                                                                  26
There is no power, as claimed under Sections 9C, 17, 20

and 35 or Section 124, to make the impugned Rule. It is

further contended that the impugned Rule contravenes

and is inconsistent with the Sections 6(2), 12 and 18

of the Tamil Nadu Apartment Ownership Act, 1994 and,

hence, is void. The appellant, having developed two

blocks, the developed building comes under the said

1994 Act. It applies to apartments constructed prior to

its commencement. The impugned Rule, being inconsistent

with Sections 6(2), 12, 18, 25 and 26 of the Act had

become inoperative. The impugned Rule is alleged to be

violative of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 and hence,

void, in view of Article 254(2) of the Constitution. It

is sought to be contended that since Entry 42 of the

Concurrent   List   provides   for   acquisition   and

requisition, any State Legislature, seeking to put in

place, a law to acquire lands with lesser compensation,

it would be impermissible. It would be discriminatory.

The Act took care to incorporate Land Acquisition Act

by reference under Section 36 of the Act. This meant

that depravation of property, without compensation, was

not contemplated. Sections 36 and 37 are invoked. Even

                                                    27
the State Legislature has no power to seek transfer of

lands to the State free-of-cost. Even a single owner

could construct a luxury independent bungalow with 3000

square meters and he will not be required to spare any

land to society whereas 184 owners who constructed 184

flats with each family having 59.7 square meters would

have to spare 10 per cent of their land free-of-cost.

This is unconscionable. No civilised society would

expect or require or steal someone’s property for their

betterment      and    the   Rule   of   Equality   requires   the

beneficiary to share the costs. Appellants rely on

Rustom Cavasjee Cooper (Banks Nationalisation) v. Union

of India3, Nagpur Improvement Trust and another v.

Vithal Rao and others4,        K.T. Plantation Private Limited

and another v. State of Karnataka5. The appellant would

pray that the Rule be declared null and void and it be

declared that the ownership of the OSR lands revert

back to the appellants.


3
    (1970) 1 SCC 248
4   (1973) 1 SCC 500
5   (2011) 9 SCC 1
                                                               28
SUBMISSIONS OF MS. V. MOHANA, SENIOR
ADVOCATE ON BEHALF OF THE WRIT PETITOINER
IN WRIT PETITION (CIVIL) NO. 591 OF 2015.

19. The objections to the challenge to the Regulation

on the ground that the Rule/Regulation had continued on

the Rule Book for long, cannot, by itself, be a ground

to repel the challenge. [See Shayara Bano v. Union of

India and others6 and Indian Young Lawyers Association

(Sabarimala    Temple-IN      RE)    v.   State       of   Kerala    and

others7]. Doctrine of Laches and Delay cannot become a

constitutional         limitation         on        court’s        power.

Expropriation of property can only be done by plenary

legislation,        i.e.,   by      Parliament        or      by   State

Legislature. Rule, made under the Rule-making power

cannot   empower     the    deprivation        of   any    substantive

right, which include property. An expropriatory law

must, at any rate, be construed strictly and must not

be brought to life in the absence of specific express

provisions [See       Nareshbhai Bhagubhai and others v.

Union of India and others8]. The State is blowing hot


6 (2017) 9 SCC 1
7 (2019) 11 SCC 1
8 (2019) 15 SCC 1


                                                                      29
and    cold   in     regard     to   power   to   make    Regulations.

Reference is made to Sections 47 and 55 to contend that

the bar on compensation will not apply in case of

deprivation of property. Neither the provisions of the

master     plan      nor   provision    relating     to    control   of

development, authorised deprivation of property without

payment of compensation. The present is a case of no

compensation and not nil compensation. The decision in

K.T. Plantations Limited v. State of Karnataka9, is

relied upon. The laudable object cannot legitimise the

violation of the Fundamental Right or Constitutional

Guarantee. It is pointed out that in Ground-K of the

Writ     Petition,         it   is    contented     that     arbitrary

restrictions on the petitioner to use his property

through Executive action, attracted Article 14. It is

further pointed out that Fundamental Right violation is

projected in Grounds-L, M and N. Equally, Article 300A

and Article 14 forms the subject matter of Grounds-C,

D, E, F, G, H, I and J, it is submitted. It is contended

that the repeal of the Regulation, which is impugned,

by the Rules of 2019, would not save the Regulation


9   (2011) 9 SCC 1
                                                                     30
from the vice of invalidity. Reliance is placed on the

decision of this Court in Behram Khurshid Pesikaka v.

State     of    Bombay10.       The    impugned    Regulations          would

constitute law for the purpose of Article 13 in this

regard. The declaration of the Regulation falling foul

of     Fundamental          Rights,    would    have     the    effect     of

rendering such law void ab initio. Reliance is placed

on the 2019 Rules and the repealing and saving provision

[Rule 74(3)]. It is contended, in short, that the rights

and obligations, apart from the express savings under

the 2019 Rules, would remain intact. With reference to

Sections 49 and 50 of the Act, it is contended that

permissions under the Development Regulations of 2008

would continue to be governed by the Regulations. Thus,

repeal     does       not    render    the     present    Writ    Petition

academic or infructuous. The fact that the petitioner

is an Association of real estate developers cannot

detract        from    the    matter    being     justiciable       and    a

Constitutional Court should not countenance technical

pleas,     when       Fundamental      Rights    are     at    stake.    When

otherwise, considering the importance of this matter,


10   (1955) 1 SCR 613
                                                                          31
bearing in mind the interplay between the Fundamental

Rights and Article 300A, this Court, despite any delay,

should       consider        the      challenge.        Petitioner       is

restricting the challenge to Regulation 29(7)(a) only

to the latter part, viz., the requirement to transfer

free-of-cost,          the   10     per   cent   area      reserved     for

recreational purposes. Section 20(1)(d), employing the

word ‘otherwise’, cannot encompass a gift. A gift would

be without compensation, which would be contrary to the

provisions of the Act. Sections 36 to 39 make it clear

that whenever an acquisition was contemplated, it was

deemed      to   be     a    public       purpose    and    payment     of

compensation       has       been    provided       for.   If   gift    is

comprehended      in     Section      20(1)(d),      it    would   be   in

conflict with Section 39. Earmarking or reserving an

area, may not constitute an injury. But the compulsory

gifting of the same, without any compensation, coupled

with changing of the character of the property from

private to public, reaches an injury. The person must

be compensated. Reliance is placed on Sahu Madho Das

and others v. Pandit Mukand Ram and another11                           and


11   (1955) 2 SCR 22
                                                                        32
Rajendra      Shankar   Shukla     and   others   v.   State    of

Chhattisgarh and others12. Reliance is placed in M.

Krishnasamy v. Member Secretary, Chennai Metropolitan

Development     Authority,    Gandhi     Irwin    Road,   Egmore,

Chennai-813 to contend that a Single Judge of the Madras

High Court doubted the very demand for conveying of OSR

land. Regulatory law, depriving a person of property,

must be strictly construed. In this regard reliance is

placed on B.K. Ravichandra and others v. Union of India

and others14. Section 124, under which Regulations can

be made, cannot empower any Authority to create or

takeaway or deprive a person of their property, by a

manner, not provided for under the Act [See Indian Young

Lawyers Association and others (Sabarimala Temple-In

Re.)15]. The Regulation represents the case of action

in   excess    of   power.   The    lands,   which     have    been

transferred, are not being used for the purpose of open

space. They are being used as dump yard or other use.

The valuable easementry rights or lung space of the



12 (2015) 10 SCC 400
13 (2013) 1 CTC 80
14 2020 SCCONLINE SC 950
15 (2019) 11 SCC 1


                                                                33
residents are lost. The frontage of the property and

its aesthetic appearance is affected. The rights of the

members of the petitioners’ Association under Article

19(1)(g) is violated. In answer to the contention of

the      respondent,      that     wherever      compensation       is

compulsorily payable, the Constitution itself has made

provision as is clear from Article 30(1A) it is sought

to be rebuffed. It is pointed out that Article 30(1A)

is only an additional protection. Compensation must be

paid, when property is deprived for a public purpose.

Reliance      is   placed    on    decisions        of   this   Court,

including the decision of this Court in Lalaram and

others v. Jaipur Development Authority and another16.

The      Court     is    requested      to     mould     the    relief

appropriately       so   that    the   lands   so    transferred   in

favour of the Authority may be reverted to the persons

directly benefiting therefrom, i.e., the Residents’

Welfare Associations or the residual owners of the

developed areas. It is further prayed that the Court

may fix a time limit, within which, interested parties

to whom the land is to be reverted may apply for seeking


16   (2016) 11 SCC 31
                                                                   34
such reversion. No other developments/redevelopments

should be made on such lands except in accordance with

law.

20. Shri Sanjay Hedge, learned Senior Counsel, for the

Corporation of Chennai, supported the judgments. He

contended    that   the    impugned     provision   promoted      a

salutary    goal.   He    highlighted    the    public   interest

involved.


SUBMISSIONS OF SHRI AMIT ANAND TIWARI;
ADDITIONAL A.G. ON BEHALF OF STATE OF TAMIL
NADU AND ‘CMDA’.


21. Section 124 of the Act confers powers to make the

Regulations. Reliance is placed on Section 9C(ii) to

empower CMDA to prepare the master plan or any detailed

development plan. Reliance is also placed on Section

17. The DCR and the Regulations are part of the master

plan. Section 2(36) defines ‘public purpose’ as ‘any

purpose which is useful to the public or any class or

section of the public’. Reserving any site, plot for

communal/recreational       purposes     in    layout    plan,   is

public purpose. Section 47 is relied upon to contend


                                                                 35
that the DCR is statutory in nature. Equally, Sections

17, 18 and 20 are invoked along with Section 124, to

contend that the DCR is statutory. Section 2(15) of the

Act includes master plan. Sections 105 and 111 give an

overriding        effect    to    the   Act.   All    the   Rules    and

Regulations, which will include the master plan, are to

prevail notwithstanding anything inconsistent with the

same contained in any other law, inter alia. Further,

it is contended that the DCR and the Regulations have

been subsumed under the Tamil Nadu Combined Development

and Building Rules, 2019. Rule 74(3) of the 2019 Rules,

is relied upon to contend that it creates a legal

fiction that anything done under the Rules/Regulations,

is deemed to have been done under the 2019 Regulations.

Reliance     is    placed    on    Judgment    in    Bengal    Immunity

Company Limited v. State of Bihar and others17. The word

‘including’       extends    and    enlarges    the    scope    of   the

Clause [See State of Jammu & Kashmir v. Lakhwinder Kumar

and others18]. If challenge to the Rules/Regulations

succeeds, it will also render the sanction of the



17   (1955) 2 SCR 603
18   (2013) 6 SCC 333)
                                                                     36
development      plans,    illegal,   which    will   necessitate

petitioners      applying    afresh   under    the    2019   Rules,

whereunder also, the prescription of 10 per cent land

being gifted, exists.

22.      It      is      further      contended       that        the

Rules/Regulations, being part of the master plan, are

statutory and being framed under the Statute, they

operate as law under Article 300A. Reliance is placed

on Pune Municipal Corporation and another v. Promoters

and Builders Association and another19. Reliance placed

by appellants on Pt. Chet Ram Vashist (Dead) by Lrs. v.

Municipal      Corporation   of    Delhi20,   is   alleged   to   be

misplaced. In the said case, there is no provision in

the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1957, under which,

the Corporation could pass a Resolution to ask the

appellant therein to transfer property free of cost. It

is further contended that the Court may bear in mind

that the Act replaced the Tamil Nadu Town and Country

Planning Act, 1920, which was based on the British Town

and Country Planning and Housing Act, 1909. From the



19   (2004) 10 SCC 796
20   (1995) 1 SCC 47
                                                                  37
Statements of Objects and Reasons, it is contended that

the Act was based on the Model Town and Country Planning

Bill, which was prepared by the Ministry of Health and

Housing      of        the    Government   of     India     after     a

comprehensive study of various Town Planning Enactments

in the western countries. The regional concept in the

Maharashtra Town and Country Planning Act, 1966 also

made its presence felt. The Act is designed to serve

legitimate state interest of planned development down

to the regional limit. Crowded urban areas, create

adverse living conditions. The reservation of open

space      for    parks       and   playgrounds    is     universally

recognised. The decision of this Court in Bangalore

Medical Trust v. B.S. Muddappa and others21, is relied

upon. It is contended that the Act requires only the

simple laying of Rules and Regulations under Section

123 of the Act. The laying of the Rules, which is not

mandatory,        if    not   followed,    will   not     affect    the

validity of the Rules/Regulations. The terms of Section

123(2) are relied upon to contend that the Rules will

come into effect even before they are placed before the


21   (1991) 4 SCC 54
                                                                    38
Legislative Assembly and any modification made by the

Assembly, will apply only from the date it is carried

out. Reliance is placed on Atlas Cycle Industries Ltd.

and     others   v.     State    of     Haryana22.    It    is     further

contended that acquisition under Chapter IV of the Act

is not required in the facts. The area is not reserved

in the master plan nor was any Notice published under

Section 26 or 27. Acceptance of appellant’s contention

would involve the need to compulsorily acquire all the

reserved lands including areas such as setback areas,

open       spaces       and     other      reserved        area.      Such

interpretation would also render the provisions of

Chapter VI, in particular Section 55, otiose. Chapter

IV apply to areas reserved and notified in the master

plan itself or to an area in excess of 10 per cent for

proposed developed area of 3000 and above square meters

or where area reserved is sought to be utilised for

purpose not being communal or recreational, or areas,

for which, there are other exceptions in the impugned

Rules/Regulations. Section 20(1)(d) stipulates that a

detailed development plan may propose or provide for


22   (1979) 2 SCC 196
                                                                       39
acquisition by purchase, exchange or otherwise, of any

land. The words ‘or otherwise’ include a transfer of 10

per cent of the land by way of a gift. It is further

contended that there is no constitutional obligation to

pay compensation. The Act contemplates divestment of

property      without   compensation   as   is   evident   from

Sections 31 and 55 read with Sections 17 and 20. It is

a settled position of law that Article 300A does not

involve or compel payment of compensation. Support is

drawn from Judgment of this Court in K.T. Plantation

Private Limited and another. v. State of Karnataka23:


        “183. Payment of compensation amount is a
        constitutional requirement under Article 30(1-
        A) and under the second proviso to Article 31-
        A(1), unlike Article 300-A. After the Forty-
        fourth Amendment Act, 1978, the constitutional
        obligation to pay compensation to a person who
        is deprived of his property primarily depends
        upon the terms of the statute and the
        legislative policy. Article 300-A, however,
        does not prohibit the payment of just
        compensation when a person is deprived of his
        property, but the question is whether a person
        is entitled to get compensation, as a matter
        of right, in the absence of any stipulation in
        the statute, depriving him of his property.

                  xxx         xxx            xxx



23   (2011) 9 SCC 1
                                                            40
     192. At this stage, we may clarify that there
     is a difference between “no” compensation and
     “nil” compensation. A law seeking to acquire
     private property for public purpose cannot say
     that “no compensation shall be paid”. However,
     there   could    be   a   law    awarding   “nil”
     compensation    in   cases    where   the   State
     undertakes   to    discharge    the   liabilities
     charged on the property under acquisition and
     onus is on the Government to establish validity
     of such law. In the latter case, the Court in
     exercise of judicial review will test such a
     law keeping in mind the above parameters.

              xxx          xxx           xxx

     205. Plea of unreasonableness, arbitrariness,
     proportionality, etc. always raises an element
     of subjectivity on which a court cannot strike
     down a statute or a statutory provision,
     especially when the right to property is no
     more a fundamental right. Otherwise the court
     will be substituting its wisdom to that of the
     legislature, which is impermissible in our
     constitutional democracy.”


23. It   is   contended   that   nil   compensation,     as

contemplated in paragraph 192, is applicable as a State

undertakes to discharge liability for providing spaces

for requirement for recreational and communal use,

which is a public purpose. The area taken under the

gift deed from the appellant in Civil Appeal No. 7334

of 2012 has been developed as a walkers’ park and used

by the public. It is contended that town planning


                                                         41
legislation has been viewed differently as it served a

legitimate State interest. Even in the United States,

where the Fifth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution

contemplates compensation for taking, for public use,

private property, courts have upheld validity of zoning

regulations which substantially limit the rights of the

owners to develop land. Compensation has been refused.

Reliance is placed on Agins v. City of Tiburon24. In

India, there is no constitutional guarantee for payment

of compensation especially when they are required to

serve    a   legitimate      public    purpose.   The    gift    of

property, apart from serving the larger interest of the

community, would also be conducive to the interests of

the     appellants.      Refuting     the   contention    of    the

appellants that the land which is transferred can be

used only by the members of the society and not by the

members of the general public, it is pointed out that

since reservation is for communal and recreational

purposes,      the    word    ‘communal     purpose’     must    be

understood to mean that it is meant for community at

large. In the case of proposed development area being


24   447 US 255 (1980)
                                                                42
3000     square     meters   –    10000    square    meters,      ‘public

access         is       specifically        excluded,            as         the

Rules/Regulations provide that public access to area

earmarked       for    transfer    to     Authority,    will          not   be

insisted upon’.

24. There is no violation of Article 14. Classification

based on size of plot has a clear nexus with the object,

viz.,        planned    development.      Reliance     is    placed          on

Judgment of this Court in State of Maharashtra and

another v. Basantibai Mohanlal Khetan and others25. As

far     as    Civil    Appeal    No(s).    1890-1891        of    2010       is

concerned, the complaint of the appellants that the

land transferred under the gift was being made use of

as a road, which is impermissible, it is contended that

it is misleading. It is the case of the respondent that

the 10 per cent land transferred, already had a kachha

road on the said land and it was being used by the

public. The appellants tried to prevent the use of the

road. The High Court considered the Report of the Court

Commissioner and concluded that furbishing of the road

served a larger public interest and provided better

25   (1986) 2 SCC 516
                                                                            43
connectivity to a larger population. Alternatively,

assuming        communal    purpose,     would     not    include

construction of roads on OSR land, in the facts of the

case, appeal is made that this Court may not interfere

in the Extraordinary Jurisdiction under Article 136.


SUBMISSIONS MADE BY SRI JAYANTH MUTHRAJ,
SENIOR ADVOCATE RESPONDENTS NOS. 1 AND 2 IN
C.A. NO. 1890 OF 2010.

25. The developers had transferred, in the interest of

public, 1100 square meters of land, to the Authority

for roads, parks and other open spaces by the gift deed

dated 18.02.1994. In the year 2003, the Corporation of

Chennai laid metal road, which provided a direct and

short link to the Velacherry 100 feet bypass road to

enable thousands of general public to have easy access

and movements. The appellant-association has no locus

as it is neither the owner of the property nor has any

usage right been assigned to it. The               CMDA is the

absolute owner of the gifted property. The public road

was laid as per the terms of the gift. The property is

used for communal purpose. The word ‘communal’ means

public.    He    relies    on   the   definition   of    the   word

                                                                44
‘communal’ in the International Websters Comprehensive

Dictionary      of      the   English     Language     Encyclopaedic

Edition      (2004      Edition)    to    mean   ‘common;   public;

belonging to a community’. He also would contend that

the DCR was prepared in accordance with Section 17 read

with Section 9C, Section 20(1)(d) and Section 20(1)(k)

and Section 35 with Section 124. Rules and Regulations

are authorised. He relies on the Judgement of this Court

in R.K. Mittal and others v. State of Uttar Pradesh and

others26and New Delhi Municipal Council and others v.

Tanvi Trading and Credit Private Limited and others27.

The impugned Rule is not an expropriatory action. It is

only regulatory. The Rule is informed by intelligible

differentia      having       a   nexus   with   the    object.   The

challenge is academic as the DCR is already repealed by

the Regulation made on 02.09.2008. There is latches in

filing the Writ Petition after 13 years of the execution

of the gift deed. Even assuming the Rule is bad, the

gift deed is beyond challenge. The appellants having

maintained Writ Petition (Civil) No. 4766 of 2007,



26   (2012) 2 SCC 232
27   (2008) 8 SCC 765
                                                                  45
based on the gift deed, cannot challenge the validity

of the gift deed in the subsequent Writ Petition.

Estoppel and constructive res judicata are principles

which are enlisted in support.


SUBMISSIONS BY SHRI K.S. SURESH, ADVOCATE IN
CIVIL APPEAL NO.7848 OF 2013


26. Shri K.S. Suresh, learned counsel appearing in C.A.

No. 7848 of 2013, (the appeal by Vasanth Apartment

Owners Association challenges the order in the review

petition) would submit that there is no power to compel

gift   of   land   which   is   not   required,   reserved   or

designated. He refers to Section 36 and would contend

that there is no power beyond the same to demand the

transfer of land. The rule providing for a compelled

gift is not within the objects, provisions and policies

of the Act. One of the zones reserved is for open space

and recreational use. Sections 36 and 37 only provide

for acquisition of land in such zones. Legislative

policy is not to acquire land without paying fair market

value. Planning permission cannot result in deprivation

of property. The DCR are not the rules made under the


                                                             46
Act. The authority is competent only to make regulation

under Section 124. In the absence of express power to

demand a gift, there cannot be an implied power. The

Act is regulatory and not a taxing legislation. The

appellants are entitled to restitution. Otherwise, he

adopts the arguments of the Shri Gopal Sankarnarayanan

made in C.A. No. 7847 of 2013. He would also in his

rejoinder submission point out that support cannot be

derived from Section 17 having regard to Section 12. He

would reiterate the argument that the State Government

also has no power relying on the judgment reported in

(2003) 5 SCC 622. He would contend that the words in

Section 122(1) empowering making rules ‘for carrying

out the purposes of the act’ is unbridled and it must

be understood as meant for regulating the use of land.


ANALYSIS


27. We have noticed the facts in the case of Vasanth

Apartments and in the case of Keyaram Hotels. In the

case of Vasanth Apartments, the land which was gifted

by the owner in compliance with the impugned rule has

been sought to be made use as a road. In the case of

                                                    47
Keyaram     Hotels   the     pertinent       point     which       must    be

noticed is that the OSR area is not sought to be so

maintained as road but access to the public by having

an entrance to the area through a public road is sought

to be projected as being contrary to the very concept

of    OSR   meant    for     communal      purpose,      if    the       word

‘communal’ is to be understood as being confined to

benefit the interest of the community which in the

context of the case is the community of persons who

patronise     the    hotel    and    who     used      the    facilities

provided in the hotel and its premises.

28. Whether     impugned      rule    is     statutory        or    it    has

statutory underpinning? Whether it is law?

The argument of the appellants appears to be, that the

impugned rule is not a statutory rule. Instead, the

further case is that the impugned rule is not a rule

made   under    Section      122     of    the    Act.   Section          123

contemplates placing of rules made under Section 122

before the legislative assembly. The said procedure has

not    been   followed       as    regards       the   impugned      rule.

Therefore, it is not open to the respondents to claim

that the impugned rule is a statutory rule. It is

                                                                          48
nothing but an executive fiat. If it is merely executive

in nature, then it is not open to the respondents to

direct the owners to execute a gift deed of valuable

property, and thus, deprive the owners of the rights

over their property.

29. The argument, on the other hand, of the respondents

is that the DCR of which the impugned rule, is a part

of the Master Plan and there is statutory authority in

regard to the making of a Master Plan located in Section

17 of the Act. In other words, the argument of the

respondents is that the court, when it approaches the

issue raised in this case, cannot have a pedantic view

and understand a Master Plan as one which is limited or

confined     to    mere   drawings.   The   Master   Plan   as

contemplated in the Act in regard to a Metropolitan

Authority like the CMDA must be viewed on a larger

canvass. The plan was put in place for catering to the

needs   of        an   ever-growing   Metropolis.     Various

restrictions necessarily have to be put in place to

provide for an orderly development of such a sprawling

urban area. The larger public interest of the entirety

of the residents of such an area had to be envisaged

                                                            49
and it is in this regard that the concept of OSR must

be viewed. The Master Plan goes to meticulous details

about what is permitted and what is not.

30. A perusal of the writ petition No.23397 of 2007

being the petition filed by the Association of Vasanth

Apartments Owners wherein Rule 19 has been challenged,

reveals the following pleading:

    It is specifically stated that Rule 19 of the DCR

 which forms part of the Master Plan prepared under

 Section 17 of the Act mandates reservation of 10% as

 open space for open and recreational facilities when

 the area exceeds 10000 sq. meters. The gift in the

 case was executed in the year 1994 (16.02.1994). It

 is further contended that under the rule the second

 respondent was to maintain it either on their own or

 through the local body. The second respondent is the

 authority. Thereafter since the second respondent has

 not developed OSR area as park, petitioner wanted to

 maintain the OSR as Park. Reference is made to Writ

 Petition   No.   4766   of   2007   and   the   developments

 including the order passed by the learned single judge

 and also writ appeal (writ appeal no. 478 of 2007)

                                                          50
wherein an interim order was passed. Thus, the writ

petition is filed in the year 2007. Now let us look

at the grounds urged:

(1) Rule 19(b) of the DCR is beyond the rule making

    power conferred on the first respondent.       The

    Act does not empower the first respondent (the

    State of Tamil Nadu) to make the DCR. Section 36

    contemplates acquisition where land is reserved

    for open space. Therefore, the rule is ultra

    vires.

(2) There is an absolute right to enjoy the property.

    This is a constitutional right under Article 300A

    of the Constitution. Unless there is acquisition

    and payment of due compensation, Article 300A is

    violated.     Therefore,     the       rule     is

    unconstitutional.

(3) The rule empowers the Authority to maintain the

    OSR area themselves or through others without

    permitting owners to themselves to do so.      The

    respondents have no right to possess and manage

    the   same.   Therefore,   the     impugned   rule




                                                   51
       authorising the second respondent to maintain

       and manage the OSR area is unconstitutional.

(4) The     DCR    not    having      been   placed    before     the

       legislative assembly, it has no force of law.

(5) The impugned rule without any guideline enables

       exercise of arbitrary power.

(6) There is no power with first respondent State to

       usurp the lands free of cost, and that too

       selectively, under the guise of regulating the

       development of the area.


The prayer is to declare Rule 19 (b) of the DCR

relating to group development in so far as it mandates

the    transfer    of    10%   area    of    the    layout   of   any

developmental plan having area 10,000 sq. meter or

more    reserved    as     open    space      for    communal     and

recreational purposes to the second respondent or the

local body designated by it, free of cost through a

registered deed and empowering the second respondent

or    any   authority     other    than      the    association   of

resident owners to maintain the said OSR area of the

respective layout, and the gift deed executed and

registered as Document No.262 dated 18.02.94 in the
                                                                  52
 office of the 4th respondent pursuant to the impugned

 rule    are   unconstitutional   and   null   and    void   and

 consequently direct the 3rd respondent to enter in

 their    records    the   members      of   the     petitioner

 Association as Owners of the said OSR area and pass

 such further or other orders as this Hon’ble Court

 may deem fit and proper in the circumstances of the

 case and thus render justice.

31. Before we deal with the issue we must bear in mind

as to what is law. Article 13 of the Constitution reads

as follows: -


     “Article 13. Laws inconsistent with or in
     derogation of the fundamental rights. — (1) All
     laws in force in the territory of India
     immediately before the commencement of this
     Constitution,   in   so   far   as   they   are
     inconsistent with the provisions of this Part,
     shall, to the extent of such inconsistency, be
     void.
     (2) The State shall not make any law which
     takes away or abridges the rights conferred by
     this Part and any law made in contravention of
     this clause shall, to the extent of the
     contravention, be void.
     (3) In this article, unless the context
     otherwise requires, —
     (a) “law” includes any Ordinance, order, bye-
     law, rule, regulation,
     notification, custom or usage having in the
     territory of India the force of
     law;

                                                             53
     (b) “laws in force” includes laws passed or
     made by a Legislature or other competent
     authority in the territory of India before the
     commencement of this Constitution and not
     previously repealed, notwithstanding that any
     such law or any part thereof may not be then
     in operation either at all or in particular
     areas.
     [(4) Nothing in this article shall apply to any
     amendment of this
     Constitution made under article 368.]”


32. Existing law has been defined in Article 366. It

reads as follows: -

     “Article 366. (10) “existing law” means any
     law, Ordinance, order, bye-law, rule or
     regulation   passed   or   made   before   the
     commencement of this Constitution by any
     Legislature, authority or person having power
     to make such a law, Ordinance, order, bye-law,
     rule or regulation;”


33. Law in force is an expression found in Article 372

of the Constitution. It reads as follows: -

     “Article 372. — The expression “law in force”
     in this article shall include a law passed or
     made by a Legislature or other competent
     authority in the territory of India before the
     commencement of this Constitution and not
     previously repealed, notwithstanding that it
     or parts of it may not be then in operation
     either at all or in particular areas.”




                                                       54
34. Section 3(29) of the General Clauses Act, 1897

defines Indian Law as:

     (29) “Indian law” shall mean any Act,
     Ordinance, Regulation, rule, order, bye-law or
     other instrument which before the commencement
     of the Constitution, had the force of law in
     any Province of India or part thereof, or
     thereafter has the force of law in any Part A
     State or Part C State or Part thereof, but does
     not include any Act of Parliament of the United
     Kingdom or any Order in Council, rule or other
     instrument made under such Act;

35. In Salmond on Jurisprudence 12th Edition, it is

profitable to notice the following discussion:

     Law as the dictate of reason: natural law
     The idea that in reality law consist of rules
     in accordance with reason and nature has formed
     the basis of a variety of natural law theories
     ranging from classical times to present day(q).
     The central notion is that there exist
     objective moral principles which depend on the
     essential nature of the universe and which can
     be discovered by natural reason, and that
     ordinary human law is only truly law in so far
     as it conforms to these principles.       These
     principles of justice and morality constitute
     the natural law, which is valid of necessity,
     because the rules for human conduct are
     logically connected with truths concerning
     human nature.
     Law as the command of the sovereign: imperative
     law
     Diametrically opposed to the theory of natural
     law is the positivist, or imperative, theory
     of law (j). This theory distinguishes the

                                                       55
question whether a rule is a legal rule from
the question whether it is a just rule (k),
and seeks to define law, not by reference to
its content but according to the formal
criteria which differentiate legal rules from
other rules such as those of morals, etiquette,
and so on.

Xxx                  xxx              xxx

According to Austin, whose version of the
theory will be considered here, positive law
has three characteristic features.     It is a
type of command, it is laid down by a political
sovereign and it is enforceable by sanction.

Xxx                  xxx              xxx

We must now distinguish commands which are laws
from commands which are not. Imagine a state
governed by an absolute ruler R. Here the law
is what R command. But is the converse true?
Are all R’s commands law?

Xxx                  xxx              xxx

Now if particular commands can qualify as laws,
how can we distinguish laws from commands which
are not?     Everyday life is sprinkled with
examples of people giving commands to others:
masters give orders to servants, teachers to
pupils, parents to children and so forth.

Xxx                  xxx              xxx

Such criticism overlook the importance of
Austin’s second requirement: for to qualify as
law a command must have been given by a
political superior, or sovereign.

Xxx                  xxx              xxx

To define law as a command can mislead us in
several ways. First, though this may be a not
                                                  56
in appropriate way of describing certain
portions of law such as the criminal law, the
greater part of a legal system consists of laws
which neither command nor forbid things to be
come, but which empower people by certain means
to achieve certain results: e.g., laws giving
citizens the right to vote, laws conferring
on lease-holders the right to buy the
reversion, laws concerning the sale of property
and the making of wills: indeed the bulk of
law of contract and of property consists of
such power-conferring rules. At this point the
theory could be saved by arguing that a rule
conferring a right on one person is really an
indirect command addressed to another: a law
empowering the citizen to vote is really an
order to the returning officer to register the
vote.

Xxx                  xxx              xxx

Thirdly, “command” conjures of the picture of
an order given by one particular commander on
one particular occasion to one particular
recipient. Laws differ in that they can and
do continue in existence long after the
extinction of the actual law-giver (r).

Xxx                  xxx              xxx

But whether we define law as a command or a
rule, we must still distinguish commands (or
rules) which are law from those which are not.
For Austin, as we saw, a command can only be
law if it emanates from a sovereign.       This
raises the question how far there can exist
laws other than those made by the sovereign.
Obviously in a complex modern state it would
be impossible for a sovereign to enact every
legal rule: much law-making will in fact be
done by subordinates to whom legislative powers
have been delegated. A good deal of English
law consists of such delegated legislation,
e.g., regulation made by Ministers under Acts
                                                  57
        of Parliament. Here Austin finds no problem,
        since he sees no difficulty in the notion of a
        sovereign conferring law-making powers on
        others (u).


36. The distinguishing feature of law has been the

subject matter of considerable debate and we may only

for the purpose of these cases note that one of the

essential features which mark out law from an executive

order is that ‘law’ has general application. In other

words, law sets out principles and rules which apply to

all of those who would be within its purview otherwise.

A law is not to be viewed as particularised decisions

of the executive. Law is generally to have operation in

the future. This court speaking through O. Chinnappa

Reddy, J. held in Union of India and Another v. Cynamide

India Limited and Another.28:


        “5. The second observation we wish to make is,
        legislative action, plenary or subordinate, is
        not subject to rules of natural justice. In the
        case   of   Parliamentary    legislation,   the
        proposition is self-evident. In the case of
        subordinate legislation, it may happen that
        Parliament may itself provide for a notice and
        for a hearing — there are several instances of
        the legislature requiring the subordinate
        legislating authority to give public notice and

28
     (1987) 2 SCC 720
                                                          58
a public hearing before say, for example,
levying a municipal rate — in which case the
substantial non-observance of the statutorily
prescribed mode of observing natural justice
may have the effect of invalidating the
subordinate legislation…”.

“7. The third observation we wish to make is,
price fixation is more in the nature of a
legislative activity than any other. It is true
that, with the proliferation of delegated
legislation, there is a tendency for the line
between legislation and administration to
vanish into an illusion. Administrative,
quasi-judicial decisions tend to merge in
legislative     activity     and,     conversely,
legislative activity tends to fade into and
present an appearance of an administrative or
quasi-judicial activity. Any attempt to draw a
distinct    line    between    legislative    and
administrative functions, it has been said, is
“difficult   in   theory    and   impossible   in
practice”. Though difficult, it is necessary
that the line must sometimes be drawn as
different legal rights and consequences may
ensue. The distinction between the two has
usually been expressed as “one between the
general and the particular”. “A legislative act
is the creation and promulgation of a general
rule of conduct without reference to particular
cases; an administrative act is the making and
issue   of   a   specific    direction   or   the
application of a general rule to a particular
case in accordance with the requirements of
policy”. “Legislation is the process of
formulating a general rule of conduct without
reference to particular cases and usually
operating in future; administration is the
process of performing particular acts, of
issuing   particular    orders   or   of   making
decisions   which    apply   general   rules   to
particular cases.” It has also been said:
“Rule-making is normally directed toward the
formulation of requirements having a general
                                                    59
     application to all members of a broadly
     identifiable class” while, “an adjudication,
     on the other hand, applies to specific
     individuals or situations”. But, this is only
     a broad distinction, not necessarily always
     true.   Administration    and    administrative
     adjudication may also be of general application
     and there may be legislation of particular
     application only. That is not ruled out. Again,
     adjudication determines past and present facts
     and declares rights and liabilities while
     legislation indicates the future course of
     action. Adjudication is determinative of the
     past and the present while legislation is
     indicative of the future. The object of the
     rule, the reach of its application, the rights
     and obligations arising out of it, its intended
     effect on past, present and future events, its
     form, the manner of its promulgation are some
     factors which may help in drawing the line
     between legislative and non-legislative acts.”


37. Paton in his work on Jurisprudence says this about

the law.

     “Law may shortly be described in terms of a
     legal order tacitly or formally accepted by a
     community. It consists of the body of rules
     which are seen to operate as binding rules in
     that community, backed by some mechanism
     accepted by the community by means of which
     sufficient compliance with the rules may be
     secured to enable the system or set of rules
     to continue to be seen as binding in nature. A
     mature system of law normally sets up that type
     of legal order known as the State, but we
     cannot say a priori that without the State no
     law can exist.”




                                                       60
38. In the DCR the preamble recites that Section 9 (c)

of the Act prescribes that the Authority is to carry

out a survey of the Chennai Metropolitan Area and

prepare a Master Plan referred to in Section 17. It is

further   stated   that    having   carried   out   necessary

surveys and studies, the Master Plan prepared in 1975

stood approved by government on 04.12.1976. The DCR

inter alia provides as follows:


   No development as defined in the Act is permissible

   without written permission. It provides for the

   manner of obtaining permission. Rule 3 proclaimed

   that no development shall be in contravention of

   the DCR. Site approval is made mandatory. The land

   use classification was put into place. The DCR

   divided land use in terms of 9 separate zones which

   included      primary     residential      zone,      mixed

   residential     zone,   institutional   use   zone,    open

   space and recreational use zone etc. There were

   detailed restrictions put in place qua the zones in

   regard to what activities were permitted as also

   what were prohibited. Part III commencing with Rule


                                                           61
17     was   captured       under    the     Caption      ‘General

Provisions’. It is under this chapter that Rule 19

made its appearance. Rule 19 dealt with Layout and

sub division. It inter alia provided for passage,

streets      and    roads   and     cul-de-sacs     and     it    is

thereunder that in respect of reservation of land

for communal and recreational purpose in a layout

or sub division that the DCR contemplated inter alia

the    impugned      provisions.     Rule    20    provided      for

parking. Rule 21 dealt with architectural control.

Rule 22 provided for preservation of buildings of

historical or architectural interest. Rule 23 dealt

with    tree       preservation.      Rule    24    dealt        with

advertisement control. Rule 25 provided for Airport

zone and Microwave Zone. In fact, Rule 26 may be

noticed at this stage in full.


 “26. These rules to prevail :- (a) In the
 application of these rules if there is conflict
 between the requirements under these rules and
 the requirements under any other Act or rules
 or by laws in force the requirements under
 these rules and the provisions of Chennai City
 Municipal Corporation Act, Tamil Nadu Distrit
 Municipal Act or Panchayat Act or any other law
 relating to the local authority for the time
 being in force or any rule, by law or
 regulation made under the said act or laws,
                                                                  62
      such provisions which are contrary to these
      rules   shall   stand    suspended.   (b)   The
      notifications made under the Municipal and
      Panchayat Acts and the Tamil Nadu Public Health
      Act, 1939 (Tamil Nadu Act III of 1939) as
      regards   setting   of   the   Industrial   and
      Residential area in the Chennai Metropolitan
      Area will cease to operate from the date of
      commencement of these rules. 27.”


Rule 27 dealt with identification of boundaries.           Rule

28 provided for delegation of power. Rule 29 made

contravention of the rules punishable with fine.

39. Section 9(c) must be read along with Section 17 of

the Act. Section 9 (c)(ii) declares that subject to the

provisions of the Act and the rules made under the Act,

the functions of the Authority is to inter alia prepare

a Master Plan referred to under sub-Section (2) of

Section 17. Section 17 deals with Master Plans. Section

17   contemplates   that    the   Local   Planning   Authority

(which is mentioned under Section 4(b) of the Act) shall

within   such   time   as   may   be   prescribed    and   after

consulting the Regional Planning Authority (see Section

4(a) of the Act) and the Local Authority, prepare and

submit to the Government, a Plan called the Master Plan.

Section 17(2) reads as follows:


                                                             63
“(2) The master plan may purpose or provide for
all or any of the following matters, namely: -

(a) the manner in which the      land   in   the
planning area shall be used;

(b) the allotment or reservation of land for
residential,   commercial,  industrial   and
agricultural purposes and for parks, play-
fields and open spaces;

(c) the allotment and reservation of land for
public buildings, institutions and for civic
amenities;

(d) the making of provision for national
highways, arterial roads, ring roads, major
streets, lines of communication including
railways, airports and canals;

(e) the traffic and transportation pattern and
traffic circulation pattern;

(f) the major road and street improvements;

(g) the areas reserved for future development,
expansion and for new housing;
(h) the provision for the improvement of areas
of bad layout or obsolete development and slum
areas and for relocation of population;

(i)   the amenities, services and utilities;

(j) the provision for detailed development of
specific   areas   for    housing,   shopping,
industries and civic amenities and educational
and cultural facilities;

(k) the control of architectural features,
elevation and frontage of buildings and
structures;

(l) the provision for regulating the zone, the
location, height, number of storeyes and size
                                                   64
      of buildings and other structures, the size of
      the yards and other open spaces and the use of
      buildings, structures and land;

      (m) the stages by which the master plan shall
      be carried out;

      and (n) such        other    matters   as   may    be
      prescribed.”


40. The   Act    as   noted   contemplates   preparation       of

detailed development plan also. Section 24 of the Act

contemplates that as soon as may be after the Master

Plan inter alia has been submitted to the Government,

the Government may not later than the time prescribed

direct the appropriate Planning Authority to make such

modification in the Master Plan inter alia. Thereupon,

the   modified   Plan   has   to   be   resubmitted     to    the

Government. Thereupon, the Government may give the

consent for publication of the notice under Section 26

of the preparation of the Master Plan inter alia.

Moving on to Section 26, it contemplates publication in

the Gazette, of the notice of the preparation of the

Master Plan inter alia. The notice must indicate the

place or places where the copies may be inspected. More

importantly, objections and suggestions in writing are


                                                              65
to be invited within such period as is specified in the

said notice. The period shall not be less than two

months from the publication of the notice. Section 26

(2) contemplates that a reasonable opportunity of being

heard   must      be        provided     to    any     person   including

representative of the Government Authority, who have

made any objection. The Planning Authority can make

amendments     based         on   the    objections       and   with        the

amendments, if any, carried out, the Plan is again

submitted to the Government. Section 28 contemplates

approval     by       the     Government       after    consulting          the

Director of Town and Country Planning of the Plan

submitted under Section 26(2). The approval may be with

or without modification. Again, it is open to the

Government to return the Plan, to modify the plan, or

to   prepare      a    fresh      Plan    in   accordance       with    such

directions as the Government may issue in this behalf

and resubmitted to the Government for approval. The

approval which is granted under Section 28 by the

Government     to      a    Master      Plan   inter    alia    is     to   be

published by the Government in the gazette and leading

newspapers. The notification must indicate the place

                                                                            66
and time at which the Plan shall be open to inspection

to the public. The Plan shall come into operation from

the date of publication in the Tamil Nādu Government

Gazette. Section 32 of the Act provides for variation,

revocation and modification of regional plans, Master

Plan and the new development plan, at any time, by a

subsequent plan prepared and approved under the Act.

41. Even according to the petitioner in Association of

Vasanth Apartments Owners, the DCR is a part of the

Master Plan. This is precisely the argument of the

respondent as well. We are in agreement with the stand

taken by the petitioner and the respondent. The DCR is

a part of the Master Plan. The process involved in the

making   of    the   Master    Plan    points    to   active

participation of all stakeholders. The plan which is

apparently    tentatively   prepared   must   first   receive

approval from the Government before the notice of its

preparation is published. It is upon such notice being

published, objections are also invited. It is open to

the Planning Authority to amend the Plan, paying heed

to the objections found to be with merit. Again, the

matter goes to the Government. Government has the power

                                                          67
again to return it. Government as well may approve the

Plan. As we have already found Master Plan cannot be

conflated with a set of drawings or maps. It must, in

the context of law in question, be extended to encompass

within its embrace rules by which alone the Plan can

become workable and the sublime goal of the lawgiver

attained. The Master Plan accompanied with the DCR were

to hold sway. It was to have general application. It

was intended to bind everyone. It created rights and

liabilities. It was not intended for any particular

person. It was to operate in the future. It carried

with it the attributes of law. The Government all

throughout plays the pivotal and leading role and it is

only with the imprimatur of approval by the Government

that   the   Plan   read   with   the   Rules   assumed   force.

Government undoubtedly had power to make rules under

Section 122 of the Act. We would therefore hold that

the DCR which held the field till 2008 when Regulations

were enacted had the force of law.

42. It is profitable for us at this juncture to look

at what a learned single judge had to say regarding the

history of the ‘DCR’ and the regulation. Justice V.

                                                             68
Ramasubramanian, while judge of the High court, has

rendered judgment reported in M. Krishnasamy V. The

Member     Secretary,      Chennai     Metropolitan   Development

Authority and Another29. It was rendered on 25.09.2012.

The petitioner therein challenged a communication by

the member secretary of the authority rejecting the

request to waive open space reservation charges for the

grant of planning permission. The amount of OSR charge

demanded was Rs.58,50,000. It was the contention of the

petitioner therein that the charges could be levied

only if land of an extent equivalent to 10% of the

total area was not reserved for open space and conveyed

to the local body. It was his case that his predecessor

in title had already earmarked 10% of the total area

and handed it over to the Corporation of Chennai. A

draft deed of conveyance was also submitted by his

predecessor which could not be executed on account of

the     lethargy     on   the   part   of   the   corporation   but

possession was taken in 1976. The learned single judge

went on to find as a matter of fact that though a gift

deed as such was not executed, the land was in public


29
     2013 1 CTC 80
                                                                69
domain for the past 36 years and no one except the

local body would lay a claim on the said land. The

Court held;


     “Para 12. Though in paragraph 10 of the counter
     affidavit, the first respondent has claimed
     that OSR land was neither gifted nor handed
     over to the Corporation, the same appears to
     be an incorrect statement. The Corporation has
     categorically confirmed that the land of the
     extent of 6 grounds 170 sq. ft., had been
     handed over by the original owner. This is also
     corroborated by (i) a letter of the Assistant
     Engineer of the Corporation of Chennai dated
     29.1.1976 and (ii) the handing over-taking over
     certificate dated 11.2.1976 signed by an
     Officer of the Deputy Collector's office and
     the Corporation of Chennai. The fact that the
     said land has been developed into a park and
     that it is now maintained by the Corporation
     of Chennai, is beyond any pale of doubt. But
     it   is   equally   true   that  no   deed   of
     conveyance/gift was executed and registered by
     the original promoter in favour of the
     Corporation. Nevertheless, the land is in
     public domain for the past 36 years and no one
     except the local body, can today lay a claim
     on the said land of the extent of 6 grounds
     and 170 sq. ft. Therefore, on the first
     question, it has to be held that OSR land has
     already been handed over to the local body.”



43. Thereafter   it   is   interesting   that   the   learned

Single Judge holds as follows: -


    “Para 13. Incidentally it must be pointed out that
    in Pt. Chet Ram Vashist vs. Municipal Corporation

                                                          70
of Delhi {1995 (1) SCC 47}, the Supreme Court held
that the effect of reserving any site for open
space, park etc., in a layout is that the owner
ceases to be a legal owner of the land in dispute
and that he would hold the said land for the
benefit of the society or the public in general.
It was further held in the said decision that the
entitlement of the Corporation or the local body
to demand the transfer of the land to them, is not
made out from the provisions of any Act or on any
principle of law. The Court pointed out that the
Corporation may get a right as custodian of public
interest to manage it in the interest of the
society in general. However, the right to manage
as a local body, was held by the Supreme Court in
the said decision, to be not the same thing as to
claim transfer of the property to itself. The
decision in Pt. Chet Ram Vashist, was followed in
Chairman, Indore Vikas Pradhikaran vs. Pure
Industrial Coke & Chemicals Ltd {MANU/SC/7706/2007
: 2007 (8) SCC 705}. Again in Babulal Badriprasad
Varma    vs.    Surat     Municipal    Corporation
{MANU/SC/7606/2008 : 2008 (12) SCC 401}, the
Supreme Court pointed out that a statute of town
planning ex facie is not a statute for acquisition
of a property. The Court further observed that
every step taken by the State does not involve
application of the Doctrine of Eminent Domain.”

Para 16. At this juncture, a small prelude is
necessary, to understand how the liability to
earmark open space for public and recreational
purposes, in a land developed into a layout and
how the liability to pay OSR charges, came into
existence. Hence it is presented as follows: -
(i) Section 9C, Chapter II-A of the Tamil Nadu
Town and Country Planning (Amendment) Act, 1973
(Tamil Nadu Act No. 22 of 1974) prescribed that
the Madras Metropolitan Development Authority
shall carry out a survey of Madras Metropolitan
area and prepare a Master Plan as referred to in
Section 17.


                                                   71
(ii) Accordingly, MMDA carried out necessary
surveys and studies and prepared the First
Master Plan for the Chennai Metropolitan Area in
1975. The Government approved the same in
G.O.Ms. No. 2395, Rural Development and Local
Administration dated 4.12.1976.
(iii) The First Master Plan covered an extent of
approximately 1170 sq. kms. It included within
the City of Chennai, a part of Ambattur Taluk,
Tambaram Taluk, Tiruvallur Taluk, Chengalpet
Taluk, Sriperumbudur Taluk, Ponneri Taluk and
Poonamallee Taluk.
(iv) Under the said Plan, all lands in the
Metropolitan Area were categorised into 10 zones
such as Primary Residential Use Zone, Mixed
Residential Use Zone, Commercial Use Zone, Light
Industrial Use Zone, General Industrial Use
Zone, Special and Hazardous Industrial Use Zone,
Institutional   Use   Zone,   Open   Space   and
Recreational Use Zone, Agricultural Use Zone and
Non-Urban Use Zone.
(v) Along with the First Master Plan, a set of
rules known as Development Control Rules were
issued by the Government. These rules dealt with
(i) permission for development (ii) use zones
and (iii) general provisions.
(vi) Rule 19 of the Development Control Rules,
which comes under Part III, under the heading
"General Provisions" deals with layout and
subdivision.
(vii) The liability to reserve a portion of the
site in a layout as open space, arose out of
Rule 19 of the Development Control Rules, till
these rules were in operation.
Para 17. Rule 19 of the Development Control Rules
contains a Table which prescribes the minimum
width of the streets and roads in different types
of layouts. Just below the Table under Rule 19,
there is a Note. The said Note contains 3
prescriptions. The third prescription in the

                                                    72
said Note contains a Table indicating the extent
of land to be reserved for communal and
recreational purposes in a layout or subdivision
for residential, commercial, industrial or
combination of such uses.
Para 21. It may be of interest to note that at
the time when the First Master Plan was conceived
in 1975, the concept of "Group Development" or
"Flats", had not gained momentum in the City of
Chennai. Therefore, the Development Control
Rules did not contain specific provisions to
regulate the same. But when developers started
promoting flats, the issue was taken up by the
Madras Metropolitan Development Authority with
the Government, in a letter dated 22.3.1981. On
the basis of the said letter of the Member
Secretary and the recommendations of the
Technical Committee of MMDA and the response of
the public to the proposed amendment to the
Rules, the Government issued G.O.Ms. No. 940,
Housing and Urban Development, dated 8.10.1982,
approving the Draft Rules for incorporation in
the Development Control Rules with certain
modifications.    They   were   issued   by   the
Government in exercise of the power conferred by
Section 32 of the Tamil Nadu Town and Country
Planning Act, 1971.
Para 22. By the Amendment so made to the
Development Control Rules, sub-rules (b) & (c)
were inserted under Rule 19. While sub-rule (b)
dealt with “Special Buildings”, sub-rule (c)
dealt with “Set Back” for residential and
commercial. Under Clause (v) of sub-rule (c) of
Rule 19, the extent of land to be reserved for
Community Recreational Purposes, was indicated
in a tabular column. It reads as follows:
 Exent of                   Reservation
 layout                         (2)
        (1)
 (i) For the     Nil
 first    3000
 sq.meters

                                                    73
 (ii) Between   10% of the area excluding roads
 3000 square    or in the alternative, he/she
 meters   and   shall pay the market value of
 10,000         the equivalent land excluding
 square         the first 3000 square meters
 meters         as per the valuation of the
                registration department. The
                space so reserved shall be
                maintained     as     Community
                Recreational Space and shall
                remain private.
 (iii) Above    10% of the area excluding roads
 10,000         shall be reserved and this
 sq.meters      space shall be transferred to
                the Authority or to the local
                body designated by it, free of
                cost, through a deed. It is
                obligatory, to reserve the 10%
                space of the site area and no
                charges can be accepted in
                lieu.

Para    23. But    in   so     far   as    “Group
Development/Flats” are concerned, the open space
to be reserved for Community Recreational
Purposes was indicated in a separate Table in the
same Government Order G.O.Ms. No. 940, dated
08.10.1982, as follows:
 Exent of                    Reservation
 layout                          (2)
        (1)
 (i) For the    Nil
 first    3000
 sq.meters
 (ii) Between   10% of the area excluding roads
 3000 square    or in the alternative, he shall
 meters    and  pay the market value of the
 10,000         equivalent land excluding the
 square         first 3000 square meters as per
 meters         the     valuation     of    the
                Registration Department. The
                space so reserved shall be
                maintained      as    Community

                                                  74
                Recreational Space and shall
                remain private.
 (iii) Above    10% of the area excluding roads
 10,000         shall be reserved and this
 sq.meters      space shall be transferred to
                the Authority or to the local
                body designated by it, free of
                cost, through a deed. It is
                obligatory to reserve the 10%
                of the site area and no charges
                can be accepted in lieu.

Para 24. Rule 19(a) & (b) was amended further by
G.O.Ms. No. 35, Housing and Urban Development,
dated 9.1.1989. But the Amendments introduced by
the said Government Order covered only layouts
of the extent between 3,000 sq.meters and 10,000
sq.meters. In other words, layouts of larger
extents above 10,000 sq.meters, were not covered
by the said Amendment.

Para 25. There appears to be a subsequent
amendment. Though the year of such amendment is
not clear, the Development Control Rules hosted
in the Internet by the CMDA, as amended upto
September 2004, contains two Tables, one in
respect of normal buildings under Rule 19(a) and
another in respect of “Special Buildings and
Group Developments” under Rule 19(b). The Table
under Rule 19(a) is as follows:

        Exent of layout           Reservation
              (1)                     (2)
 For   the   first   3000   Nil
 square meters
 Between    3000   square   10 percent of the
 meters     and    10,000   area      excluding
 square meters              roads or in the
                            alternative      he
                            shall    pay    the
                            market   value   of
                            equivalent     land

                                                  75
                           excluding the first
                           3000 square meters
                           as      per      the
                           valuation of the
                           registration
                           department.      “No
                           such area reserved
                           shall measure less
                           than   100    square
                           meters     with    a
                           minimum    dimension
                           of 10 meters”.
                           The     space     so
                           reserved shall be
                           transferred to the
                           Authority or to the
                           Local           body
                           designated by it,
                           free     of    cost,
                           through a deed, and
                           in     turn      the
                           Authority or the
                           Local    body    may
                           permit           the
                           residents
                           Association or Flat
                           Owners'
                           Association      for
                           maintaining     such
                           reserved space as
                           park. In such cases
                           public access for
                           the      area     as
                           earmarked shall not
                           be insisted upon.
Above    10,000   square   10 percent of the
meters                     area       excluding
                           roads    shall    be
                           reserved and this
                           space    shall    be
                           maintained        as
                           Community
                           Recreational    Open

                                                  76
                           Space     to    the
                           satisfaction of the
                           authority        or
                           transferred to the
                           authority       for
                           maintenance. It is
                           obligatory       to
                           reserve 10 percent
                           of the layout area.

Para 26. The Table under Rule 19(b) in respect
of Special Buildings, is as follows:
  Exent of                  Reservation
   layout                        (2)
     (1)
 For     the       Nil
 first 3000
 square
 meters
 Between           10   percent    of  the  area
 3000              excluding roads or in the
 square            alternative shall pay the
 meters and        market     value     of   the
 10,000            equivalent land excluding the
 square            first 3,000 square meters as
 meters            per the valuation of the
                   Registration Department only
                   where it is not possible to
                   provide open space due to
                   physical constraints. No such
                   area reserved shall measure
                   less than 100 square meters
                   with a minimum dimension of
                   10 meters.
                   The space so reserved shall
                   be    transferred     to  the
                   Authority or to the Local
                   Body designated by it, free
                   of cost, through a deed, and
                   in the turn the Authority or
                   the local body may permit the
                   Residents Association or Flat
                   Owners'     Association   for

                                                 77
                   maintaining    such   reserved
                   space as park. In such cases,
                   public access for the area as
                   earmarked    shall   not    be
                   insisted upon.
 Above             10   percent    of  the   area
 10,000            excluding   roads   shall   be
 square            reserved and this space shall
 meters            be    transferred    to    the
                   authority or to the local
                   body designated by it, free
                   of cost, through a deed. It
                   is obligatory to reserve the
                   10 percent space of this site
                   area and no charges can be
                   accepted in lieu, in case of
                   new      developments       or
                   redevelopments.

Para   27. After   a   spurt   in   developmental
activities, the CMDA felt a need for a Second
Master Plan for the Chennai Metropolitan Area.
Therefore, a Draft Second Master Plan 2011 was
prepared and submitted to the Government and the
Government gave its consent to it under G.O.Ms.
No. 59, Housing and Urban Development Department,
dated 30.6.1995. After public consultation, it
was submitted to the Government in December 1995
for approval. But approval could not be granted
on account of an interim prohibitory order
granted by this Court in a Writ Petition. Though
the Writ Petition W.P. No. 14819 of 1995 was
eventually    dismissed    on   10.7.2001,    the
Government returned the Draft Second Master Plan
to the CMDA for suitable modifications. This was
under G.O.Ms. No. 408, dated 5.10.2001.

Para 28. Thereafter, a revised Draft Second
Master Plan with the year 2026 as the horizon
year, was prepared and submitted to the
Government in December 2005. The Government again
returned it under G.O.Ms. No. 331, H & UD
Department, dated 5.12.2006, with a direction to

                                                78
    incorporate certain developments in the field and
    to submit a fresh proposal for consent. This was
    done in February 2007 and the Government gave its
    consent on 30.3.2007.

    Para 29. Thereafter, copies of the Draft Second
    Master Plan were made available to the public and
    also hosted in the official website of the First
    Respondent. Subsequently public consultations
    were conducted in April and July 2007 and a two-
    day workshop was also held in August 2007.
    Thereafter, the draft was finalised and submitted
    to the Government. Finally, the Second Master
    Plan for Chennai Metropolitan Area was approved
    by the Government of Tamil Nadu in G.O.Ms. No.
    190, Housing and Urban Development, dated
    2.9.2008 and it was notified in the Gazette on
    the same day. As part of the Second Master Plan,
    a set of Regulations known as “Development
    Regulations” were issued and they came into force
    on 2.9.2008.

    Para 30. Regulation 26 of the Development
    Regulations    2008,    contains     stipulations
    regarding   “Special   Buildings”.    A   Special
    Building is defined in Regulation 2(40) to mean
    (i) a residential or commercial building with
    more than two floors, or (ii) a residential
    building with more than 6 dwelling units or (iii)
    a commercial building exceeding a floor area of
    300 sq.meters.”


44. After referring to Rule 27 dealing with group

developments and Rule 29 which dealing with layout and

sub division regulations and finding it to correspond

to Rule 19 of the DCR and further noticing Rule 27 in




                                                    79
greater detail, the learned Single Judge then proceeds

to hold further as follows: -


     “Para 34. A careful survey of (i) the
     provisions that existed from 1975 till 2008
     under the First Master Plan and the Development
     Control Rules, and (ii) the provisions that
     exist with effect from 2008 under the Second
     Master Plan and the Development Regulations,
     would show that layouts had always been
     classified into 3 categories. They are, (i)
     those whose total land extent is upto 3,000
     sq.meters, (ii) those whose total land extent
     is   between   3,000   sq.meters   and   10,000
     sq.meters, and (iii) those whose total land
     extent is above 10,000 sq.meters.

     Para 35. Consistently, the Development Control
     Rules which were in force till 2008 and the
     Development Regulations which are in force from
     2008, have exempted layouts whose total extent
     of land is upto 3,000 sq.meters, from the
     obligation   to   reserve   any   open   space.
     Similarly, the Rules have consistently given
     two options, either to hand over 10% of the
     area excluding roads or to pay the market value
     of equivalent land, in so far as layouts whose
     total extent of land is between 3,000 sq.meters
     and 10,000 sq.meters.
     Para 36. But, in respect of layouts whose total
     extent of land is above 10,000 sq.meters, the
     Rules have always insisted upon handing over
     of Open Space Reservation land to the extent
     of 10% of the total area. In respect of layouts
     whose total extent is above 10,000 sq.meters,
     it was made clear by the successive Government
     Orders that no charges in lieu of 10% of the
     area can be accepted. This is borne out by—
     (1) G.O.Ms. No. 743, Housing and Urban
     Development, dated 10.5.1979,

                                                       80
      (2) G.O.Ms. No. 940, Housing and Urban
      Development, dated 8.10.1982,
      (3) the Development Control Rules as of
      September, 2004 (hosted in the official
      website) and the Table contained therein under
      Rules 19(a) & 19(b), and
      (4) Regulation 29 and Annexure XX under the
      Development Regulations of the year 2008.”


     We are fortified in our conclusion that the Rule

in question was statutory in nature. Section 123 (2)

contemplates that every rule made under the Act is to

be   laid   as   soon   as   may   be   on   the   table   of   the

Legislative Assembly and it inter alia enables the

Assembly to modify the rule and if the Assembly decides

that the rule should not be made or give it a modified

operation or no effect, then such a decision of the

Assembly will prevail. It is to be noticed that this

is after providing that unless otherwise expressed, the

rules come into force on the day on which they are

published in the Gazette. This shows that the rule has

life without reference to the Legislative Assembly. It

is undoubtedly true that Section 122 speaks of the

power of the Government to make rules. While it is true

that the Master Plan is to be prepared by the CMDA and

the rules would form part of the Master Plan, the scheme

                                                                81
of the rules would show that it is only with the

approval of the Government that the rules along with

the   Master    Plan   come   into   force.   We   have   already

noticed the effect of Section 32 as indeed it was

considered by the learned Single Judge in the judgment

we have referred to.


THE GIFT DEED IN VASANTH APARTMENTS CASE


45. The complaint about there being no rationale in

allowing a developer who develops a layout which is

between 3000 sq.m. and 10000 sq.m. to pay the equivalent

is to be found both in the circumstance that it is

permitted only when there is a physical complaint and

also it is obvious that the local Authority would be

expected   to   plough   back   the   money   equivalent     into

making available alternate facility by way of OSR in

such cases.

46. It is necessary to notice the relevant facts in the

case relating to Vasanth Apartments in greater detail.

The writ petition filed by the Association of Vasanth

Owners is in the year 2007. The Vasanth Apartments is

located at 100 feet bye-pass road, Velacherry. The

                                                              82
apartments were promoted as group developments in terms

of approval granted by the CMDA on 16.05.1997. The

Apartments consist of 12 blocks, out of which 11 blocks

consist of 4 storeys and house about 180 dwellings. The

total area of the layout is more than 10,000 sq. mtr.

10% of the total area consisting of 1164 sq. mtr. was

reserved    for   use   as    OSR.   A   gift   was     executed   on

10.02.1994    under     the   DCR.   The   CMDA   was     either   to

maintain the OSR area on its own or to permit the

appellant    Association       to    maintain     the    same.     180

families residing in the campus do not have any park

and   any    recreational      facility     despite       the    OSR.

Thereafter, there is reference to attempts being made

by some persons to encroach on the said OSR area for

some other purposes. Several loads of earth was dumped

in the OSR area. The case on the other hand of the

respondents as can be seen from the writ appeal is that

at the time of construction, the land owners earmarked

the portion of the land, that is, 11836 sq. feet, as

open space regulation (OSR area) for road and park and

gifted the same as per the gift deed. The second

respondent Corporation has formed road in that land

                                                                   83
during the year 2003 itself and was maintaining the

same. It is their case that the appellant Association

was blocking the said road. The said road is a shortest

link from West Vellachery to East Vellachery - Vijay

Nagar    and   this   road   gives    access     to   Venkateshwara

Nagar, MGR Nagar and Devikarumariamman Nagar etc.,

where one lakh people are living in Vellachery.

47. Now, it is necessary to notice the actual terms of

the gift deed which was executed on 18th February, 1994.

The relevant terms read as follows: -


                             “GIFT DEED

        This indenture       made    on   this   18th   day   of
        February 1994.
                            between
        1. Shri K.S. Dasarathan, Hindu, aged about 48
        years.
        2. Smt. D. Inbanayagi, Hindu, aged about 40
        years, wife of Shri K.S.Dasarathan.
        both residing at 84, Dr. Natesan Road,
        Mylapore, Madras-4.
        3. Shri G.T. Murugesan, Hindu, aged about 45
        years.
        4. Smt. M. Jayalakshmi, Hindu, aged about 40
        years, wife of Shri G.T. Murugesan.
        both residing at No.35, Nainar Nadar Road,
        Mylapore, Madras-4.
        All represented by their Power Agent Shri M.S.
        Rajamanickam, son of Shri M. Sivagnanam, aged
        about 42 years, residing at 75, C.P. Ramasamy
        Road, Alwarpet, Madras, hereinafter called
        "THE DONOR" of the one part;

                                                                   84
                     and
The Madras Metropolitan Development Authority,
represented by its Member Secretary, having
their office at No.8, Gandhi Irwin Road,
"Thalamuthu   Natarajan   Building",   Egmore,
Madras, hereinafter called "THE DONEE" on the
other part;

WHEREAS the "DONOR" is well sufficiently
entitled, free from all encumbrances, the piece
of lands for roads and parks hereunder
described and intended to be hereby granted
conveyed and assigned.

WHEREAS the DONOR is the absolute GPA holder
of the property bearing S.No.379/1 (Part) and
380 / 4 (part) of Velacherry Village and
submitted a proposal for development of the
land in the above S.Nos. for residential
purposes. To comply with the rules and
regulations prevailing now, the DONOR in the
interest of public has agreed to transfer the
roads and park and other open space hereunder
described through a gift deed in favour of
DONEE and DONEE has agreed to accept the same.

Now this indenture witnesseth that the DONOR
doth hereby give, grant, convey and assign in
the interest of public unto the DONEE who
hereby accepts the same all that lands for
roads, parks and other open space situated in
S.Nos.379 / 1, (part) and 380 / 4 (part) which
is for the use of the public comprised in
layout sketch enclosed, within registration
subdistrict of Madras South and registration
district   of    Madras   Central    and   more
particularly   described    in   the   schedule
hereunder written and the DONOR doth hereby
covenant with the DONEE that the DONOR now does
have good right to grant, convey and assign the
lands of roads/parks hereby granted conveyed
and assigned upto the "DONEE" with the manner
aforesaid and that the "DONEE" shall and may
at all times hereafter peacefully and quietly
                                                  85
     possess and enjoy the said lands of roads/parks
     free from all encumbrances whatsoever without
     any lawful eviction, interruption, claim,
     whatsoever, from or by the "DONOR" or any
     person claiming under or interest for him and
     further that the "DONOR" and all person having
     lawfully or equitably claiming any rights on
     roads/parks or interest with the said premises
     or any part thereof from under or interest for
     the "DONOR" or from or under any of his
     ancestors shall and will from time to time and
     at all times hereafter at the request of and
     cost of the "DONOR" do execute and register or
     cause to be done
     executed and registered all such acts, deeds
     and things whatsoever for further and more
     perfectly assuring the said lands or roads and
     parks every part thereof unto the "DONEE" in
     the manner aforesaid or as shall or may be
     reasonably required.

                THE SCHEDULE OF PROPERTY
     All that piece and parcel of lands measuring
     1100 square meters reserved for parks/open
     spaces and marked in colour of the layout
     sketch enclosed herein situated in S.No.379/1
     (part) and 380/4 (part) of Velacherry Village,
     Saidapet Taluk, Madras and within the sub
     registration District of Madras South and
     Registration District of Madras Central.
     The value of property Rs.1,99,000/-.”


WHETHER THE IMPUGNED RULE VIOLATES
ARTICLE 14 OF THE CONSTITUTION? IS IT
DISCRIMINATORY?


48. As far as this ground is concerned, we do not find

any reference to this line of argument before the High


                                                       86
Court.   In   the   writ   petition   filed   by   the   Vasanth

Apartments (writ petition no. 23397 of 2007) the only

feeble reference, if at all we can understand the same

to be one, is ground (F) where what is contended is

that the CMDA had no power under the Constitution to

usurp the lands of citizens free of cost, that too

selectively,    under      the   guise   of   regulating    the

development of the area. In the written submissions, no

doubt we may notice the following: -


     “(v) Further, if a plot measuring 200m x 55m
     abutting a road of wide 1O m and above if
     developed by seeking a single approval, it
     would attract the impugned rule of gifting 10%
     area whereas if it is divided into 4 pieces of
     50 m* 55 m and sold to 4 individuals and then
     developed by the 4 persons, for the same
     development, then the impugned rule will not
     be attracted. Therefore, the impugned rule
     mandating the transfer of OSR area free of cost
     has no rational basis and hence arbitrary.

     (vi) Further, if an open space is required for
     public purpose, then every public would be
     enjoying the same. The state may tax the public
     based on wealth but can not tax only a person
     who is proposing to develop an area of 10,000
     sqm. Therefore, the classification has neither
     any intelligible differentia nor has rational
     nexus with the object of town Planning.
     Therefore, the impugned rule is discriminatory
     and hence violative of Art.14 of Constitution
     of India.

                                                             87
       The Hon'ble Court Supreme Court in Yogendra Pal
       & others Vs. Municiplaity, Bhatinda, reported
       in AIR 1994 Supreme Court 2550 [relevant para-
       9] has held that the statutory provisions U/S
       192(1)(c) of the Punjab Municipal Act'1911 and
       U/S 203(1)(c) of Haryana Municipal Act'1973
       enabling the State to seek transfer of land to
       the extent of 25% of the private land free of
       cost while developing a building scheme as
       violative of Art.14 of the Constitution of
       India.   The   Hon'ble   Supreme   Court  while
       upholding the said provisions as not violative
       of Arts. 19(1)(f) and 31(2) (the then existing
       provisions) of Constitution of India but held
       the said provisions as violative of Art. 14 of
       the Constitution of India.
       Therefore, due to the aforesaid reasons, the
       mandate under the impugned rule to transfer the
       OSR area free of cost is without any basis and
       hence    arbitrary    and    unreasonable   and
       discriminatory and hence violative of Art.14
       of the Constitution of India.”



49. In the review petition (filed as review application

no. 69 of 2008) also there is no contention seeking to

ventilate the complaint that the impugned rule falls

foul    of   Article   14   on   the   basis   that   it   is

discriminatory.

50. We are concerned in this case with the provision

which provides for town planning. In regard to such

law, a certain measure of free play is to be given to

the planning authority bearing in mind that it is urban

planning what is involved. In regard to the grant of
                                                           88
development permit up to 3000 sq. mtr., the rules do

not contemplate any requirement in the matter of OSR.

It is a matter which goes to the wisdom and clearly

falls within the realm of policy. In other words, having

regard to the size of the development contemplated, the

authority   has   not   found   it   fit   to   provide   for

reservation under the head open space. It cannot be

described as being bereft of any rationale that upon

the minimum threshold of 3,000 sq. mtr. being breached

and the layout being between 3,000 sq. mtr. and 10,000

sq. mtr., 10% of the area excluding roads is to be

maintained as open space. In other words, 10% of area

would have to be reserved for communal and recreational

facilities. It is no doubt true that that in cases

falling in the said category namely group developments

which comprise of an area in excess of 3,000 sq. mtr.

and up to 10,000 sq. mtr., it is open to the project

proponent to pay the market value equal to the land on

the basis of valuation as provided therein. However, it

is only if on account of the physical constraints it is

not possible to provide open space, that payment is

contemplated. Another noteworthy feature is that in

                                                          89
cases where the land is between 3,000 sq. mtr. and

10,000 sq. mtr. public access for the area as earmarked

shall not be insisted upon. It is when it comes to a

case where if the area goes above 10,000 sq. mtrs.,

that it becomes obligatory to reserve 10% of the area

excluding road and the OSR reserved is to be transferred

by way of gift deed.

51. We are unable to persuade ourselves to hold that

the impugned rule violates Article 14 on the score that

it is discriminatory. In a challenge to a provision

based on discrimination under Article 14, the burden is

on the applicant to lay clear foundation in pleadings

and further to discharge the burden by making good the

case and the court will not lightly enter a finding of

discrimination. Town planning being a complex subject

involving various inputs and value judgements which are

intended to ensure the orderly, visionary and planned

development,   they    require   greater   deference   from

courts.


                                                        90
IS THE IMPUGNED RULE/ REGULATION ULTRA
VIRES?

52. It       has   been   contended   on   behalf   of    the

appellants/writ petitioner that the impugned provisions

represent a case of they being ultra vires. In General

Officer Commanding-in-Chief and another v. Dr. Subhash

Chandra Yadav and another30, this Court was considering

the validity of Rule 5C of the Cantonment Funds Servants

Rules, 1937. It was contended that it was contrary to

Section 280(2)(c) of the Cantonment Act, 1924. The

argument was accepted. The argument of the appellant,

that in view of the provision in the Parent Act that

Rules, when published, would have effect as if they

were enacted in the Act, was repelled. We notice only

the following discussion:


        “14. This contention is unsound. It is well
        settled that rules framed under the provisions
        of a statute form part of the statute. In other
        words, rules have statutory force. But before
        a rule can have the effect of a statutory
        provision, two conditions must be fulfilled,
        namely, (1) it must conform to the provisions
        of the statute under which it is framed; and
        (2) it must also come within the scope and
        purview of the rule-making power of the

30   (1988) 2 SCC 351
                                                          91
        authority framing the rule. If either of these
        two conditions is not fulfilled, the rule so
        framed would be void. The position remains the
        same even though sub-section (2) of Section 281
        of the Act has specifically provided that after
        the rules are framed and published they shall
        have effect as if enacted in the Act.”


53. In Kunj Behari Lal Butail and others v. State of

H.P. and others31, the Parent Act conferred power on

the Delegate from the Government, to make Rules for

carrying      out   the   purpose   of   the   Act,   a   familiar

legislative device. The contention taken was that the

Rule in question revealed the Delegate surpassing its

authority. We notice the following discussion:


        “8. … Tea estates are excluded from the
        provisions of the Act by Section 5. “Tea
        estate” is defined in the interpretation
        clause of the Act to mean an area under tea
        plantation and includes within the definition
        “such other area necessary for purposes
        subservient to a tea plantation as may be
        prescribed”. Rule 3 defines what areas shall
        be treated as subservient to a tea plantation.
        The amendment made vide notification dated 4-
        4-1986 places an embargo on the right to
        transfer such subservient land though exempted
        from the operation of the Act. Clearly the
        impugned proviso is beyond the rule-making
        power of the State Government as conferred by
        the Act. It is well settled that the
        legislature cannot delegate its essential
        legislative functions which consist in the
31   (2000) 3 SCC 40
                                                               92
determination or choosing of the legislative
policy and of formally enacting that policy
into a binding rule of conduct. What is
permitted is the delegation of ancillary or
subordinate legislative functions, or, what is
fictionally called, a power to fill up the
details.    [See: Principles   of    Statutory
Interpretation, Justice G.P. Singh, (7th Edn.,
1999, at pp. 689-90).]
9. In Supreme    Court    Employees'   Welfare
Assn. v. Union of India [(1989) 4 SCC 187 :
1989 SCC (L&S) 569 : AIR 1990 SC 334] this
Court has held:
“(A) delegated legislation or a subordinate
legislation must conform exactly to the power
granted.”
                         (SCC p. 222, para 62)
“Rules, whether made under the Constitution or
a statute, must be intra vires the parent law
under which power has been delegated.”


10. In General      Officer      Commanding-in-
Chief v. Dr Subhash Chandra Yadav [(1988) 2
SCC 351 : 1988 SCC (L&S) 542 : (1988) 7 ATC
296 : AIR 1988 SC 876] it has been held: (SCC
p. 357, para 14)
“[B]efore a rule can have the effect of a
statutory provision, two conditions must be
fulfilled, namely, (1) it must conform to the
provisions of the statute under which it is
framed; and (2) it must also come within the
scope and purview of the rule-making power of
the authority framing the rule. If either of
these two conditions is not fulfilled, the rule
so framed would be void.”




                                                  93
54. Finally, we may notice Global Energy Ltd. and

another v. Central Electricity Regulatory Commission32.

This Court laid down as follows:


        “25. It is now a well-settled principle of law
        that the rule-making power “for carrying out
        the purpose of the Act” is a general
        delegation. Such a general delegation may not
        be held to be laying down any guidelines. Thus,
        by reason of such a provision alone, the
        regulation-making power cannot be exercised so
        as to bring into existence substantive rights
        or obligations or disabilities which are not
        contemplated in terms of the provisions of the
        said Act.

        26. We may, in this connection refer to a
        decision of this Court in Kunj Behari Lal
        Butail v. State of H.P. [(2000) 3 SCC 40]
        wherein a three-Judge Bench of this Court held
        as under: (SCC p. 47, para 14)
        “14. We are also of the opinion that a
        delegated power to legislate by making rules
        ‘for carrying out the purposes of the Act’ is
        a general delegation without laying down any
        guidelines; it cannot be so exercised as to
        bring into existence substantive rights or
        obligations or disabilities not contemplated
        by the provisions of the Act itself.”
        [See also State of Kerala v. Unni [(2007) 2
        SCC 365] (SCC paras 32 to 37) and A.P.
        Electricity Regulatory Commission v. R.V.K.
        Energy (P) Ltd. [(2008) 17 SCC 769 : (2008) 9
        Scale 529] ]




32   (2009) 15 SCC 570
                                                          94
55. The case law is relied upon to contend that the

impugned provisions, in the cases before us, purport to

achieve, what is not contemplated by the Act. In other

words, the Act does not contemplate the execution of

the     gift   deed.        It    becomes    impermissible    for   the

Delegate       of   the      Law     Giver    to    make   subordinate

legislation to provide so. We may only finally notice

the recent Judgment of this Court in Indian Young

Lawyers Association and others (Sabarimala Temple-In

Re.) v. State of Kerala and others33, where this Court

has      reiterated         the     aforesaid       principles.     (See

paragraphs 137 to 140 and paragraph 373).



THE IMPACT OF SECTIONS 36 AND 37

56. The        appellants/petitioner            would      argue    that

Sections 36 and 37 contemplate acquisition of the lands

which are reserved. This means that there cannot be a

gift      deed,        as    contemplated          in   the   impugned

Rules/Regulations.




33   (2019) 11 SCC 1
                                                                     95
57. We are afraid that though at first blush, the

argument may appear to be attractive, it cannot pass

muster on a deeper scrutiny. What Section 36 provides

is,       for   power    to   acquire     land,    under      the   Land

Acquisition Act. It goes on to provide that any land

required, reserved or designated in a regional plan,

master plan, detailed development plan, is deemed to

be land needed for a public purpose under the Land

Acquisition       Act.    What   is     more,   such    land    can   be

acquired under the said law, as modified in the Act.

It is thereafter that Section 37 contemplates that upon

publication of the notice in a Government Gazette of

the preparation of the plan that any land is required,

reserved or designated in such plan, the appropriate

Planning Authority, which includes, no doubt, the CMDA,

can do two things: (1) It may enter into an agreement

for the acquisition by purchase of any land. It is

apparently land, which is covered by Section 36, which

means land which is required, reserved or designated

in    a    master   plan,     inter     alia.     (2)   The    Planning

Authority may apply to the Government for acquiring

such land under the Land Acquisition Act. Section 37(2)
 96
goes on to provide that if an application is received

and if the Government is satisfied that the land is

needed for the public purpose, the Government may make

a declaration in the manner provided in Section 6 of

the Land Acquisition Act 1894. It will be noticed that

what is contemplated under Sections 36 and 37 is that

it is in regard to any land, which is required, reserved

or designated in a plan that the question of acquiring

such a land arises. In other words, if the property is

needed under the plan and it is shown as required,

reserved or designated, as such, in the plan, then, it

is open to the Authority acting in coordination with

the Government to acquire such land so that the lofty

goal of planned and orderly development, contemplated

in the plan, is achieved. In this connection, it is

relevant to notice that Section 37 kicks in immediately

upon the publication of a notice for the preparation

of the plan. The notice is published under Section 26

or Section 27. Such notice is published after the

consent of the Government is received under Section 25.

It is next relevant to notice Section 38. Section 38

allows the period of three years from the date of

                                                     97
publication of the notice under Section 26 or Section

27   for    the    Government         to      publish     the        declaration

contemplated under Section 37, which, no doubt, amounts

to   a     declaration          under       Section       6     of    the     Land

Acquisition        Act.      Section        38   provides       that     if    the

declaration is not made under Section 37 of the Act,

the land shall be deemed to be released from such

reservation, allotment or designation. The time limit

of three years, not being observed for acquiring the

land by way of purchase, also has the same result,

viz., the land, which in the plan, is shown as reserved,

allotted     or     designated,         shall        be   freed       from    such

reservation, allotment or designation.

58. We      are,        in   these      cases,        dealing         with     the

reservation        of    land    by     a    person,      who    applies      for

development of the land and, more specifically, for the

purpose of group development. The person, who applies,

becomes obliged under Rule 19(b) to reserve 10 per cent

of   his     land       excluding           roads,    for       communal       and

recreational purposes. This is a reservation to be made

by a person applying for planning permission on the

basis of the extent of the layout. It is, no doubt,

                                                                               98
premised on the land being in excess of a certain

threshold   becoming    subject    matter   of     the    planning

permission. The land so reserved is to be freed from

any construction by the owner/promoter/developer. The

land for communal and recreational purposes, is to be

restricted at ground level in a shape and location to

be   specified   by   the   CMDA   (See   Clause    (3)    of   the

Explanation in Rules.). Therefore, the exact land to

be reserved under the impugned Rule, will vary from

case to case. It is not to be confused with the areas

required, reserved or designated in the plan. In fact,

in Annexure XX, which is the subject matter of the 2008

Regulations, the specific requirement in regard to the

place where the OSR is to be located is indicated as

the place where the property abuts a public road.

59. From the Preamble to the DCR, it would appear that

the first master plan was prepared in 1975 for the

Chennai Metropolitan Area and the Government approved

it on 04.12.1976. As found by V. Ramasubramanium, J.

in the Judgment, which we have elaborately referred to,

the DCR came to be issued along with the first master

plan. Thereafter, as noticed by him, to deal with group

                                                                99
development or flats, the issue was taken up by the

CMDA by letter dated 22.03.1981, Government issued GoMS

dated 08.10.1982. The learned Judge has found that the

Government exercised power under Section 32 of the Act.

What we are indicating is that the reservation of the

land    for   communal   or   recreational   purposes    in

individual cases, on the basis of applications made by

persons, is not to be conflated with the land which is

declared as required, reserved or designated in the

master plan, inter alia, which latter categories alone

are the subject matter of Sections 36 and 37 of the

Act.


IS THE IMPUGNED RULE/REGULATION BAD FOR
THE REASON THAT IT IS CONTRARY TO THE
MANDATE OF SECTION 39 OF THE ACT?

60. Section 39 of the Act, reads as follows:


       “39. Right to compensation. - (1) Any person
       whose property is injuriously affected by
       virtue of any of the provisions contained in
       any regional plan, master plan, detailed
       development plan or a new town development plan
       made under this Act shall, if he prefers a
       claim for the purpose to the Tribunal with such
       particulars and within such period as may be
       prescribed, be entitled to obtain compensation


                                                        100
     in respect   thereof   as   determined   by   the
     Tribunal:

     Provided that property shall not be deemed to
     be injuriously affected by reason of any of the
     provisions inserted in any development plan
     which impose any condition or restriction in
     regard to any of the matters specified in
     clause (f) of sub-section (2) of section 15,
     or in clauses (k) and (l) of sub-section (2)
     of section 17 or in clauses (m) and (n) of sub-
     section (1) of section 20, as the case may be.

     (2) If, at any time after the day on which any
     regional    plan,    master   plan,    detailed
     development plan, or a new town development
     plan has come into force, such plan is varied,
     or revoked, any person who has incurred any
     expenditure for the purpose of complying with
     such plan, shall, if he prefers a claim for
     the purpose to the Tribunal with such
     particulars and within such time as may be
     prescribed, be entitled to obtain compensation
     in respect thereof as determined by the
     Tribunal, if by reason only of the variation
     or revocation of such plan, such expenditure
     has ceased to be in any way beneficial to him.”


61. What Section 39 contemplates is the following:

    A person must be injuriously affected on account

of any of the provisions contained in a regional plan,

master plan, detailed development plan or a new town

development plan, under the Act. Should this occur, the

affected party becomes entitled to move the Tribunal

and seek compensation, which is to be determined by the


                                                     101
Tribunal.    The   proviso    to   Section    39(1),    however,

declares    that   property   shall   not    be   deemed   to    be

injuriously affected on account of any development

plan, which may impose certain conditions, which are

specified in Section 15(2)(f), Section 17(2)(k) and (l)

or in Section 20(1)(m) and (n).


62. ‘Development plan’ is defined in Section 2(15) as

follows:


     “(15) “development plan” means a plan for the
     development or re-development or improvement
     of the area within the jurisdiction of a
     planning authority and includes a regional
     plan, master plan, detailed development plan
     and a new town development plan prepared under
     the Act.”


63. Therefore,     a   development    plan   would     embrace    a

master plan. The effect of the proviso is that, in

respect of the matters contained in the proviso, the

law declares that there would not be a claim for

compensation on the basis that the property of a person

is injuriously affected as a result of the contents of

the development plan in relation to matters specified

in the proviso. The word ‘injuriously affected’ would


                                                                102
apparently    mean   that    a    person    has       land,    which    is

adversely affected as a result of the coming into

operation of the development plan. Section 15(2)(f)

deals with demarcation of objects and buildings of

archaeological or historical interests or of natural

beauty or actually used for religious purposes or as

regarded by the public with veneration. Similarly,

Section 17(2)(k) deals with control of architectural

features,    elevation      and    frontage      of    buildings       and

structures. Section 17(2)(l), which is also referred

to in the proviso, deals with matters relating to zonal

regulations,    location,         the    height,      the     number    of

storeys, size of buildings and other structures, the

size of the yards and other open spaces and the use of

buildings, structures and land. If anyone is otherwise

injuriously    affected     as     a    result   of    any     of   these

aspects provided for in a master plan under Section 17,

he cannot make a complaint of it under Section 39 and

claim compensation for it. The master plan provides for

zones, nine in number. One of the zones is open space

zone. Open space requirements are separately stipulated

in respect of other zones. Similarly, Section 20, which

                                                                       103
deals with the contents of the detailed development

plan, in sub-Section (1)(m), deals essentially with

buildings of archaeological and historical interests,

inter    alia.   Section   20(1)(n)   of   the   Act    reads    as

follows:


        “20(1)(n) the imposition of conditions and
        restrictions in regard to the character,
        density, architectural features and height of
        buildings, the building or control lines for
        roads, railway lines and power supply lines and
        the purposes to which buildings or specified
        areas may or may not be appropriated and the
        provision and maintenance of sufficient open
        spaces about buildings;”


64. A perusal of Section 39 would clearly reveal that

a right to compensation is conferred on any person

whose property is ‘injuriously affected’ by any of the

provisions contained in the master plan. A person

seeking to develop his land and if he falls within the

ambit     of   rule/regulation   in    question        cannot    be

described as a person whose property is injuriously

affected by the provisions of the master plan inter

alia. The very language used in Section 39 appears to

be incongruous with the raising of any such claim. It

is not as if the parties have in this case raised any

                                                                104
such claim. The contention taken in the case of M/s.

Keyaram   Hotels        is   that   Section    39   provides    for

compensation to persons who are affected in the manner

provided in the said provision. The provision actually

deals with cases of a person having property, who, with

the   making   of   a    master     plan,   inter   alia,   becomes

injuriously affected. The words ‘injuriously affected’

would bear meaning if expounded with reference to a

person who has a property and that property becomes

injuriously affected by virtue of the provision of any

master plan. Take for instance, the land of a person

is found to fall in a zone which is earmarked in the

primary residential use zone. The provision in the DCR

which forms part of the plan inter alia provides that

all uses not specifically permitted under sub-rule (a)

and (b) will stand prohibited in the zone. The proviso

is only to be understood as qualifying the ambit of the

main provision which itself must be understood has

application in cases where a person is injuriously

affected by the provision of a master plan inter alia.

65. We are reinforced in our view that the contention

of the appellants is misplaced with reference to the

                                                               105
concept of ‘injuriously affected’ finding expression

in Section 39, having regard to the decision by this

Court in Prakash Amichand Shah v. State of Gujarat34.

This was also a case relating to town planning. It

arose under the Bombay Town Planning Act. We may only

refer to paragraph 10 which reads as follows:


        “10. Section 69 states that the owner of any
        property or right which is injuriously affected
        by the making of a town planning scheme shall
        be entitled to obtain compensation from the
        local authority or from any person benefited
        or partly from the local authority and partly
        from such person as the Town Planning Officer
        may in each case determine. It seems obvious
        that the property or right which is injuriously
        affected by the making of a town planning
        scheme is a property or right other than that
        acquired for the purposes of the scheme. The
        property or right affected remains with the
        owner who is entitled to compensation for such
        injurious affection. When under the Act a plot
        of land is taken for the purposes of a town
        planning scheme, it cannot be suggested that
        that land itself is injuriously affected; such
        a view is unsupportable both as a matter of
        language and having regard to the scheme of the
        Act. On behalf of the appellant it was urged
        that clause (xiii) would cover the case of the
        appellant if only we read a few words in that
        clause and that we should do so to avoid
        injustice being done to the appellant and the
        owners of land similarly situated. That we are
        afraid is not possible. We find no compelling
        reason for restructuring the clause, and taking
        acquisition   of   land   to mean    “injurious

34
     (1981) 3 SCC 508
                                                      106
      affection” of the land acquired would be
      inconsistent with the entire scheme of the Act.
      We may refer to clause “fourthly” of Section
      23(1) of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 which
      requires the court to take into consideration
      in determining the amount of compensation to
      be awarded for land acquired under that Act,
      the damage sustained by the “person interested”
      “by reason of the acquisition injuriously
      affecting his other property”. The expression
      “person interested” as defined in Section 3 of
      the Land Acquisition Act means all persons
      calming an interest in compensation to be made
      on account of the acquisition of land under
      that Act. It is made clear in clause “fourthly”
      that the damage is for injurious affection of
      some property other than the land acquired. The
      sense in which the expression “injurious
      affection” is used in Section 23(1) of the Land
      Acquisition Act is the generally accepted
      meaning of that expression and we find nothing
      in the Act concerned in this case that suggests
      that it should be construed differently.”


66. The    case       of   a    person   developing     land     being

subjected to the requirement of leaving 10 percent of

the property in a situation where more than nearly 2

and   a   half    acres    is    being   developed     in   an   urban

metropolis       as   space     for   communal   and   recreational

purposes cannot be said to be a person ‘injuriously

affected’ within the meaning of Section 39.




                                                                  107
THE IMPACT OF SECTIONS 48 TO 55


67. The contention is taken that Sections 48 and 49 do

not authorise or enable deprivation of a person’s

property sought to be developed free of cost. Equally,

it is contended that Sections 52 to 54 obligate the

state      to    acquire        lands   even    if    permission     for

development is rejected or if any of the conditions for

any permission is objected or even if any modifications

of already given permission is not acceptable to the

owner. It is also contended that Sections 52 to 54

patently        provide    for     compensation.      Therefore,     the

impugned rule which provides for a compelled gift

involving transfer of right to property free of cost

is ultra vires. It is the further contention that the

legislature took extraordinary care to ensure that a

landowner is not affected or injured even slightly

because     of    the     planning      law.   The   exceptions     from

obligation to pay compensation are provided in Sections

17(2)(k) and (l) which relate to the use of land and

do   not    provide       for    reserving     any   land   for   public

purpose.


                                                                    108
68. Section 47 of the Act comes under Chapter VI which

deals with control of development and use of land. It

declares that after the coming into operation of any

development plan in any area, any person, other than

the government or local authority, cannot use or cause

to be used any land otherwise in accordance with the

development       plan.   This    would    mean       that    once     a

development plan which includes a master plan comes

into operation which happens on the approval of the

government being published under Section 30 of the Act

in the Gazette, Development activities must be carried

on only in accordance with the terms of the master

plan. Section 48 is intended to place restrictions on

buildings and land when a notice in the Gazette is

published    under     Section    26,    inter    alia.      With    the

publication of the notice which is a prelude to the

coming into operation of the plan under Section 30,

Section 48 prohibits the erection of any building or

other work or other excavation as enumerated therein

except   with     a   written    permission      of   the    planning

authority and subject to such conditions. Section 49

provides    for    application     for    such   permission         when

                                                                    109
notice of preparation of a master plan, inter alia, is

published under Section 26 of the Act inviting the

restrictions contemplated in Section 48. It is dealing

with such a situation, namely, when the master plan,

inter alia, has not come into operation and only a

notice is published under Section 26, inter alia, that

Section 49(2) provides for three matters which are to

guide   the    planning        authority   in    deciding       whether

permission     should     be    granted    or   not.    They    are    as

follows: -

  i.    The purpose.

  ii. The suitability of the place for such purpose.

  iii. The future development and maintenance of the

        planning area.

69. Section 50 provides that the permission granted

under Section 49 is to remain in force for a period of

three years from the date of permission. It can be

extended but subject to a maximum period of three

years. Section 52 provides for an obligation to acquire

land    or    building.    It     operates      in     the   following

circumstances. A land may be required or reserved or

designated     in   any   development       plan     which     includes

                                                                      110
master plan. A person must be interested in the land

or     building          which        is   so      required,            reserved      or

designated          in    such        plan.      He     must           have   made    an

application seeking permission. The application must

have    been        either       refused         or    granted,           subject     to

conditions. For the section to operate the following

further conditions must exist. The refusal to grant

permission      should           result       in      the     land       or   building

becoming incapable of reasonably beneficial use in the

condition in which the land is. This means that as a

result of the land or building being required, reserved

or designated in the plan, the person interested in the

land or building is unable to use the land for which

he     could    have         used,         but        for        the     requirement,

reservation or designation in the plan, and it has

resulted       in    the     rejection           of     his       application        for

permission to develop the property. Then the law has

given    the    person           so    aggrieved            to    serve       a   notice

described as the ‘acquisition notice’ calling upon the

government to acquire his interest in the land or

building. The same would be the position if permission

is granted but subject to the conditions which render

                                                                                     111
the land incapable of beneficial use. Section 53 deals

with refusal       of permission or grant of        permission

subject to conditions in certain other cases. In fact,

the proviso in Section 53 declares that no compensation

can be claimed under the main provision if the refusal

or grant of permission subject to conditions is based

on any provision of any development plan. Section 54

deals with cases of permission which is granted for any

development under the Act being revoked or modified.

Section    54(2)     contemplates    compensation    for    the

expenditure which is incurred for carrying out the

development based on the grant of permission which was

rendered   abortive     by   the    revocation.   Section    55

declares that nothing in the Act confers any right to

obtain compensation in respect of development made by

a person after a notice in the Gazette is published

under Section 26, inter alia, without obtaining the

permission as required under Section 49. Sub-section 2

of Section 55 reads as follows: -

     “(2). Whether any property is alleged to be
     injuriously affected by reason of any of the
     provisions contained in any development plan,
     no compensation shall be paid in respect
     thereof, if or in so far as the provisions are

                                                            112
     such as would have been enforceable without any
     compensation under any law, rule or regulation
     or bye-law at the time in force.”


70. We are unable to find merit in the contention that

Rule 19 of the DCR or the regulation which is impugned

is in anyway ultra vires of the provision of the Act

and the arguments suggestive of the same are repelled.

71. Even though the appellant’s (M/s. Keyaram Hotels

Pvt. Ltd.) attempt to invite us to pronounce on the

validity of the impugned rule on the score that it

contravened the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Apartment

Ownership Act, 1994 which got presidential assent on

06.04.1995 and came to be notified on 24.04.1995, we

do not think that the appellant should be permitted to

test the validity of the impugned rule on a ground

which was not raised before the High Court. It is true

that the gift deed was executed on 22.05.1996. But this

was not a ground which was urged before the court and

we do not intend to explore the contention in this

proceeding.


                                                   113
72. We have found that the impugned rule/ regulation

cannot be said to be ultra vires the parent act. This

is after finding that the rule has statutory force.


THE RIGHTS REGIME

73. It is necessary to deal with a right, a person has,

as an owner of a property. In Salmond on Jurisprudence

12th Edition, we note the following:

     “Secondly, the owner normally has a right to
     use and enjoy the thing owned: right to manage
     it, i.e., the right to decide how it shall be
     used; and the right to the income from it.
     Whereas the right to possess is a right in the
     strict sense, these rights are in fact
     liberties: the owner has a liberty to use the
     thing, i.e., he is under no duty not to use
     it, in contrast with others who are under a
     duty not to use or interfere with it.”


74. We may however notice the following:

     “This does not mean, however, that an owner
     whose property is unencumbered has completely
     unlimited rights. To describe someone as an
     absolute owner of property is to say two
     things; it is to assert that his title to the
     property is indisputable, and that he has all
     the rights of ownership allowed by the legal
     system in question. We have seen that the
     rights of ownership may be limited by the
     adverse dominant rights of an encumbrancer or
     by the rights of the possessor (who is in fact
     one very special type of an encumbrancer). They
                                                   114
         may also be limited by special provisions of
         law such as Town & Country planning law, which
         regulates for social purposes the use which an
         owner may make office land. But in addition to
         being restricted by such specific provisions
         of public law, and owner’s rights are
         restricted by a whole variety of provisions of
         the ordinary law, according to which various
         harmful and dangerous types of conduct qualify
         as criminal or tortious; the fact that I am
         the owner of a knife will not entitle me to
         use it to kill Smith. We may say that an owner
         is free to use and dispose of his property as
         he pleases, except in so far as he does not
         infringe his duties to specific encumbrancers,
         his   duties    under   special    regulations
         concerning the use of property (f) and his
         general duties under the general law of the
         land (f).”
                                   (Emphasis supplied)


75. In T. Vijayalakshmi v. Town Planning Member,35 this

Court while dealing with a case arising under the Town

Planning Law had this to say:

         “13. Town Planning legislations are regulatory
         in nature. The right to property of a person
         would include a right to construct a building.
         Such a right, however, can be restricted by
         reason of a legislation.

         15. The law in this behalf is explicit. Right
         of a person to construct residential houses in
         the residential area is a valuable right. The
         said right can only be regulated in terms of a
         regulatory statute but unless there exists a
         clear provision the same cannot be taken away.
35
     (2006) 8 SCC 502
                                                      115
         It is also a trite law that the building plans
         are required to be dealt with in terms of the
         existing law. Determination of such a question
         cannot be postponed far less taken away.
         Doctrine of legitimate expectation in a case
         of this nature would have a role to play.”

                                      (Emphasis supplied)


76. In Indore Vikas Pradhikaran v. Pure Industrial Coke

& Chemicals Ltd.,36 this Court was again dealing with a

case     under   the    town   Planning   Law.   The   following

statement requires to be noticed:

         “45. Town and country planning involving land
         development of the cities which are sought to
         be achieved through the process of land use,
         zoning plan and regulating building activities
         must receive due attention of all concerned.
         We are furthermore not oblivious of the fact
         that such planning involving highly complex
         cities depends upon scientific research, study
         and   experience and, thus,     deserves due
         reverence.
         46. Where, however, a scheme comes into force,
         although it may cause hardship to the
         individual owners as they may be prevented from
         making the most profitable use of their rights
         over property, having regard to the drastic
         consequences envisaged thereunder, the statute
         should be considered in such a manner as a
         result whereof greater hardship is not caused
         to the citizens than actually contemplated
         thereby. Whereas an attempt should be made to
         prevent unplanned and haphazard development
         but the same would not mean that the court

36
     (2007) 8 SCC 705
                                                            116
would    close    its   eyes   to    the   blatant
illegalities committed by the State and/or the
statutory     authorities    in    implementation
thereof.     Implementation     of    such    land
development as also building laws should be in
consonance      with    public     welfare     and
convenience. In United States of America zoning
ordinances are enacted pursuant to the police
power delegated by the State. Although in India
the source of such power is not police power
but   if   a   zoning    classification imposes
unreasonable     restrictions,    it   cannot   be
sustained. The public authority may have
general considerations, safety or general
welfare in mind, but the same would become
irrelevant, as thereby statutory rights of a
party cannot be taken away. The courts must
make an endeavour to strike a balance between
public interest on the one hand and protection
of a constitutional right to hold property, on
the other.

47. For   the   aforementioned  purpose,   an
endeavour should be made to find out as to
whether the statute takes care of public
interest in the matter vis-à-vis the private
interest, on the one hand, and the effect of
lapse and/or positive inaction on the part of
the State and other planning authorities, on
the other.

52. The courts should, therefore, strive to
find a balance of the competing interests.

Human rights issue
53. The right to property is now considered to
be not only a constitutional right but also a
human right.

Interpretation of the Act
57. The Act being regulatory in nature as by
reason thereof the right of an owner of

                                                 117
     property to use and develop stands restricted,
     requires strict construction. An owner of land
     ordinarily would be entitled to use or develop
     the same for any purpose unless there exists
     certain regulation in a statute or statutory
     rules. Regulations contained in such statute
     must be interpreted in such a manner so as to
     least interfere with the right to property of
     the owner of such land. Restrictions are made
     in larger public interest. Such restrictions,
     indisputably    must   be   reasonable    ones.
     (See Balram Kumawat v. Union of India [(2003)
     7    SCC   628]    ; Krishi    Utpadan    Mandi
     Samiti v. Pilibhit Pantnagar Beej Ltd. [(2004)
     1 SCC 391] and Union of India v. West Coast
     Paper Mills Ltd. [(2004) 2 SCC 747] ) The
     statutory scheme contemplates that a person and
     owner of land should not ordinarily be deprived
     from the user thereof by way of reservation or
     designation.
     58. Expropriatory legislation, as is well-
     known, must be given a strict construction.

                                   (Emphasis supplied)


77. An owner of land may not have an absolute and

unqualified   right   which   is   the   idea   which    not

unnaturally comes to mind when the idea of ownership

is under consideration. As we have already noted, the

right is capable of being regulated and restricted

under a law relating to Town Planning. Proceeding on

the basis that DCR is law, the question would arise

under the said law whether a person can use his land

as he chooses. Zoning requirements have been put in

                                                        118
place. Primarily in a residential zone, can anyone put

up an industrial establishment if the said use is

prohibited?       The    answer   is    quite   clearly      in    the

negative. Can anyone construct a building in excess of

the stipulated requirement as to the height of the

building or contravening restrictions such as setback,

floor space area etc.? The answer cannot be in the

affirmative.

78. At this juncture, we may also notice the scheme of

the       Constitution   as   regards    property    rights.      When

Constitution       was   originally      enacted    the    right    to

acquire, hold and dispose of property was guaranteed

as    a    fundamental   right    to    citizens    of    India   vide

Article 19(1)(f). This was, however, made subject to

reasonable restrictions which could no doubt be imposed

by a law under Article 19(5). That apart, Article 31

originally provided as follows:

          “31. (1) No person shall be deprived of his
          property save by authority of law.
          (2)   No  property,   movable  or immovable,
          including any interest in, or in any company
          owning,   any    commercial   of   industrial
          undertaking shall be taken possession of or
          acquired for public purposes under any law
          authorising the taking of such possession or
          such acquisition, unless the law provides for
                                                                   119
compensation for the property taken possession
of or acquired and either fixes the amount of
the compensation, or specifies the principles
on which, and the manner in which, the
compensation is to be determined and given.
(3) No such law as is referred to in clause
(2) made by the legislature of a State shall
have effect unless such law, having been
reserved   for   the   consideration   of   the
President, has received his assent.
(4) If any Bill pending at the commencement of
this Constitution in the legislature of a State
has, after it has, been passed by such
Legislature,    been     reserved    for    the
consideration of the President and has received
his assent, then, notwithstanding anything in
this Constitution, the law so assented to shall
not be called in question in any court on the
ground that it contravenes the provisions of
clause (2).
(5) Nothing in clause (2) shall affect—
(a) the provisions of any existing law other
than a law to which the provisions of clause
(6) apply, or
(b) the provisions of any law which the State
may hereafter make—
(i) for the purpose of imposing or levying any
tax or penalty, or
(ii) for the promotion of public health or the
prevention of danger to life or property, or
(iii) in pursuance of any agreement entered
into between the Government of the Dominion of
India or the Government of India and the
Government of any other country, or otherwise,
with respect to property declared by law to be
evacuee property.
(6) Any law of the State enacted not more than
eighteen months before the commencement of this
Constitution may within three months from such
commencement be submitted to the President for
his certification; and thereupon, if the
President by public notification so certifies,

                                              120
     it shall not be called in question in any court
     on the ground that it contravenes the
     provisions of clause (2) of this article or has
     contravened the provisions of sub-section (2)
     of Section 209 of the Government of India Act,
     1935.”

79. This Article 31 came to be amended by Constitution

(Fourth Amendment) Act and after the amendment, the

amended provision read as follows:

     The   Constitution  (Fourth   Amendment) Act
     amended clause (2) and inserted a new clause
     (2-A). The amended clause (2) and the new
     clause (2-A) are in these terms:

     “31. (2) No property shall be compulsorily
     acquired or requisitioned save for a public
     purpose and save by authority of a law which
     provides for compensation for the property so
     acquired or requisitioned and either fixes the
     amount of the compensation or specifies the
     principles on which, and the manner in which,
     the compensation is to be determined and given;
     and no such law shall be called in question in
     any court on the ground that the compensation
     provided by that law is not adequate.

     (2-A). Where a law does not provide for the
     transfer of the ownership or right to
     possession of any property to the State or to
     a corporation owned or controlled by the State,
     it shall not be deemed to provide for the
     compulsory acquisition or requisitioning of
     property, notwithstanding that it deprives any
     person of his property.”




                                                   121
80. At this juncture again, we must notice the aspect

of Police power, in contrast with the Doctrine of

Eminent Domain.

81. In      the    judgment     of   this   court   in     Deputy

Commissioner and Collector v. Durga Nath Sarma37, this

Court     has   noticed   the   amendment   of   Article   31    as

noticed hereinbefore and has expounded the law in the

following paragraph:

      “10. Our attention has been drawn to certain
      opinions expressed in our earlier decisions that
      Article 31(2) occupies the field of eminent
      domain and Article 31(5)(b)(ii) contains a
      saving clause with regard to the police powers
      of the State. The concepts of eminent domain and
      police powers are borrowed from American law.
      The constitutional guarantee of the due process
      clause in the United States Constitution
      requires that no private property shall be taken
      for public use without just compensation. In the
      exercise of its police power, the State may pass
      regulations designed to ensure public health,
      public morals, public safety as also public
      convenience or general prosperity, see Chicago,
      Burlington & Quincy Railway company v. People of
      the State of Illinois [200 US 561 : 50 LEd 596,
      609] . In the exercise of its eminent domain
      power, the State may take any property from the
      owner and may appropriate it for public
      purposes. The police and eminent domain powers
      are essentially distinct. Under the police power
      many restrictions may be imposed and the
      property   may   even   be   destroyed   without
      compensation being given, whereas under the

37   AIR 1968 SC 394
                                                                122
power of eminent domain, the property may be
appropriated to public use on payment of
compensation only. The distinction between the
two powers is brought out clearly in the
following passage in American Jurisprudence, 2nd
Edn., Vol. 16, Article 301 p. 592:
    “The state, under the police power, cannot
  in any manner actually take and appropriate
  property for public use without compensation,
  for   such   action   is   repugnant   to   the
  constitutional guaranty that where private
  property is appropriated for public use, the
  owner shall receive reasonable compensation.
  Thus, there is a vital difference, which is
  recognised by the authorities, between an Act
  passed with exclusive reference to the police
  power of the state, without any purpose to take
  and apply property to public uses, and an Act
  which not only declares the existence of a
  nuisance created by the condition of particular
  property, but in addition, and as the best
  means of accomplishing the end in view,
  authorizes the same property to be appropriated
  by the public.”
    In Sweet v. Rechel [159 US 380 : 40 LEd 188]
    the validity of an Act to enable the city of
    Boston to abate a nuisance existing therein
    and for the preservation of the public health
    in the city by improving the drainage of the
    territory was sustained on the ground that
    the Act provided for payment of just
    compensation. The Court pointed out that
    private property the condition of which was
    such as to endanger the public health could
    not be legally taken by the Commonwealth and
    appropriated to public use without reasonable
    compensation to the owner. In Delaware L. &
    W.R. Co. v. Morristown [276 US 182 : 72 LEd
    523, 527] an Ordinance establishing a public
    hack stand on private property without
    payment of compensation was struck down on
    the ground that assuming that the creation
    of the public hack stand would be a proper

                                                123
  exercise of the police power it did not
  follow that the due process clause would not
  safeguard to the owner just compensation for
  the   use   of   the    property.   In United
  States v. Caltex (Philippines) [344 US 149 :
  97 LEd 157] the Court held that no
  compensation was payable by the United States
  for the destruction by its retreating army
  of private property to prevent its falling
  into enemy hands. But the Court recognised
  that compensation would be payable for the
  army's requisitioning of private property for
  its subsequent use. The Court said that in
  times of imminent peril such as when fire
  threatened a whole community — the sovereign
  could, with immunity, destroy the property
  of a few that the property of many and the
  lives of many more could be saved. Indeed,
  it would be folly not to destroy some
  building so that an entire town may be saved
  from the conflagration, as will appear from
  the following historic incident referred to
  in Respublica v. Sparhawk [1 Dall 357, 363 :
  1 LEd 174] :
  “We find, indeed, a memorable instance of
  folly recorded in the 3rd Vol. of Clarendon's
  History, where it is mentioned, that the Lord
  Mayor of London in 1666, when the city was
  on fire, would not give directions for, or
  consent to, the pulling down forty wooden
  houses or to removing the furniture etc.
  belonging to the lawyers of the temple, then
  on the circuit, for fear he should be
  answerable for a trespass; and in consequence
  of this conduct, half that great city was
  burnt.”
If Article 31(5)(b)(ii) is regarded as a saving
clause with regard to the police power of the
State, it is clear that under a law designed
to promote public health or to prevent danger
to life or property the State may in cases of
imminent peril destroy or impair the value of
private property without any obligation to pay

                                              124
         compensation, but it cannot arrogate to itself
         the power to acquire and appropriate to its own
         use private property without payment of
         compensation.

82. We may also notice that in Tukaram Kana Joshi v.

MIDC38, while dealing with a case of acquisition of

land, this Court held as follows:

         “11. …The appellants had asked repeatedly for
         grant of the benefit of compensation. The State
         must either comply with the procedure laid down
         for acquisition, or requisition, or any other
         permissible   statutory   mode.   There  is   a
         distinction, a true and concrete distinction,
         between the principle of “eminent domain” and
         “police power” of the State. Under certain
         circumstances, the police power of the State
         may be used temporarily, to take possession of
         property but the present case clearly shows
         that neither of the said powers have been
         exercised. A question then arises with respect
         to the authority or power under which the State
         entered upon the land. It is evident that the
         act of the State amounts to encroachment, in
         exercise of “absolute power” which in common
         parlance is also called abuse of power or use
         of muscle power. To further clarify this
         position, it must be noted that the authorities
         have treated the landowner as a “subject” of
         medieval India, but not as a “citizen” under
         our Constitution.”


83. It has been followed in Bhimandas Ambwani (Dead)

through LRs v. Delhi Power Company Ltd.39.


38
     (2013) 1 SCC 353
39    (2013) 14 SCC 195
                                                       125
84. While      on   the issue   relating   to   the   aspect    of

acquisition, a case arose under the Coffee Act in

Coffee Board, Karnataka, Bangalore v. Commissioner of

Commercial      Taxes,   Karnataka   and   others40    and     the

question which arose was whether the coffee grower who

made a sale made compulsorily to the Coffee Board

amounted to sale or was it an acquisition. It is

apposite that we advert to the following paragraphs:

        “28. Since all persons including the Coffee
        Board are prohibited from purchasing/selling
        coffee in law, there could be no sale or
        purchase   to   attract   the    imposition   of
        sales/purchase tax it was urged. Even if there
        was compulsion there would be a sale as was
        the position in Vishnu Agencies [(1978) 2 SCR
        433 : (1978) 1 SCC 520 : 1978 SCC (Tax) 31 :
        AIR 1978 SC 449] . This Court therein approved
        the minority opinion of Hidayatullah, J. in New
        India Sugar Mills v. CST [New India Sugar
        Mills Ltd. v. CST, AIR 1963 SC 1207 : 1963 Supp
        (2) SCR 459 : (1963) 14 STC 316] . In the nature
        of the transactions contemplated under the Act
        mutual assent either express or implied is not
        totally absent in this case in the transactions
        under the Act. Coffee growers have a volition
        or option, though minimal or nominal to enter
        into the coffee growing trade. Coffee growing
        was not compulsory. If anyone decides to grow
        coffee or continue to grow coffee, he must
        transact in terms of the regulation imposed for

40   (1988) 3 SCC 263,
                                                               126
        the benefit of the coffee growing industry.
 Section 25 of the Act provides the Board with
        the right to reject coffee if it is not up to
        the standard. Value to be paid as contemplated
        by the Act is the price of the coffee. Fixation
        of price is regulation but is a matter of
        dealing between the parties. There is no time
        fixed for delivery of coffee either to the
        Board    or   the    curer.   These    indicate
        consensuality which is not totally absent in
        the transaction.”

       It was found that it was a sale which took place.


85. Article 31 stands omitted and Article 19(1)(f) also

stands deleted by way of the Forty-Fourth Amendment to

the      Constitution      which   came   into   effect   from

20.06.1979. It is by the very same amendment that

Article 300A was inserted in the Constitution. Article

300A is a resurrection of Article 31 (1). This Court

in the judgment in Jilubhai Nanbhai Khachar v. State

of Gujarat41      held as follows:

        “34. The right of eminent domain is the right
        of the sovereign State, through its regular
        agencies, to reassert, either temporarily or
        permanently, its dominion over any portion of
        the soil of the State including private
        property without its owner's consent on account
        of public exigency and for the public good.
        Eminent domain is the highest and most exact

41   1995 (suppl.) 1 SCC   596
                                                          127
     idea of property remaining in the Government,
     or in the aggregate body of the people in their
     sovereign capacity. It gives the right to
     resume possession of the property in the manner
     directed by the Constitution and the laws of
     the State, whenever the public interest
     requires it. The term ‘expropriation’ is
     practically synonymous with the term “eminent
     domain”.
                                (Emphasis supplied)


    This Court opined that the right to property is not

a basic feature of the Constitution [See paragraph 30].

We may also notice the following views: -


     “48. The word ‘property’ used in Article 300-
     A must be understood in the context in which
     the sovereign power of eminent domain is
     exercised    by   the   State    and   property
     expropriated. No abstract principles could be
     laid. Each case must be considered in the light
     of its own facts and setting. The phrase
     “deprivation of the property of a person” must
     equally be considered in the fact situation of
     a   case.   Deprivation    connotes   different
     concepts. Article 300-A gets attracted to an
     acquisition or taking possession of private
     property, by necessary implication for public
     purpose, in accordance with the law made by
     Parliament or a State Legislature, a rule or a
     statutory order having force of law. It is
     inherent in every sovereign State by exercising
     its power of eminent domain to expropriate
     private property without owner's consent.
     Prima facie, State would be the judge to decide
     whether a purpose is a public purpose. But it
     is not the sole judge. This will be subject to
     judicial review and it is the duty of the court
     to determine whether a particular purpose is a
                                                   128
        public purpose or not. Public interest has
        always been considered to be an essential
        ingredient of public purpose. But every public
        purpose does not fall under Article 300-A nor
        every exercise of eminent domain an acquisition
        or taking possession under Article 300-A.
        Generally speaking preservation of public
        health or prevention of damage to life and
        property are considered to be public purposes.
        Yet deprivation of property for any such
        purpose would not amount to acquisition or
        possession taken under Article 300-A. It would
        be by exercise of the police power of the
        State. In other words, Article 300-A only
        limits the powers of the State that no person
        shall be deprived of his property save by
        authority of law. There has to be no
        deprivation without any sanction of law.
        Deprivation   by   any  other    mode  is   not
        acquisition or taking possession under Article
        300-A. In other words, if there is no law,
        there is no deprivation. Acquisition of mines,
        minerals and quarries is deprivation under
        Article 300-A.”
                                    (Emphasis supplied)


86. A Constitution Bench has considered the aspects

arising out of the changes brought by the amendment to

the Constitution by the insertion of Article 300A in

the judgment of this Court in K.T. Plantation Private

Limited v. State of Karnataka42.     We may advert to the

following views:

        “178. The principles of eminent domain, as
        such, are not seen incorporated in Article 300-
42   (2011) 9 SCC 1
                                                      129
A, as we see, in Article 30(1-A), as well as
in the second proviso to Article 31-A(1) though
we can infer those principles in Article 300-
A. The provision for payment of compensation
has been specifically incorporated in Article
30(1-A) as well as in the second proviso to
Article   31-A(1)    for   achieving   specific
objectives. The Constitution (Forty-fourth
Amendment) Act, 1978 while omitting Article 31
brought in a substantive provision clause (1-
A) to Article 30. Resultantly, though no
individual or even educational institution
belonging to majority community shall have any
fundamental right to compensation in case of
compulsory acquisition of his property by the
State, an educational institution belonging to
a   minority   community    shall   have   such
fundamental right to claim compensation in case
the State enacts a law providing for compulsory
acquisition of any property of an educational
institution established and administered by a
minority   community.    Further,  the   second
proviso to Article 31-A(1) prohibits the
legislature from making a law which does not
contain a provision for payment of compensation
at a rate not less than the market value which
follows that a law which does not contain such
provision shall be invalid and the acquisition
proceedings would be rendered void.

179. Looking at the history of the various
constitutional       amendments,       judicial
pronouncements and the Statement of Objects and
Reasons   contained    in   the    Forty-fourth
Amendment Bill which led to the Forty-fourth
Amendment Act we have no doubt that the
intention of Parliament was to do away with the
fundamental right to acquire, hold and dispose
of the property. But the question is whether
the principles of eminent domain are completely
obliterated when a person is deprived of his
property by the authority of law under Article
300-A of the Constitution.

                                              130
Public purpose

180. Deprivation   of   property  within   the
meaning of Article 300-A, generally speaking,
must take place for public purpose or public
interest. The concept of eminent domain which
applies when a person is deprived of his
property postulates that the purpose must be
primarily public and not primarily of private
interest and merely incidentally beneficial to
the public. Any law, which deprives a person
of his private property for private interest,
will be unlawful and unfair and undermines the
rule of law and can be subjected to judicial
review. But the question as to whether the
purpose is primarily public or private, has to
be decided by the legislature, which of course
should be made known.

Compensation
182. We have found that the requirement of
public purpose is invariably the rule for
depriving a person of his property, violation
of which is amenable to judicial review. Let
us now examine whether the requirement of
payment of compensation is the rule after the
deletion of Article 31(2).

183. Payment of compensation amount is a
constitutional requirement under Article 30(1-
A) and under the second proviso to Article 31-
A(1), unlike Article 300-A. After the Forty-
fourth Amendment Act, 1978, the constitutional
obligation to pay compensation to a person who
is deprived of his property primarily depends
upon the terms of the statute and the
legislative policy. Article 300-A, however,
does not prohibit the payment of just
compensation when a person is deprived of his
property, but the question is whether a person
is entitled to get compensation, as a matter
of right, in the absence of any stipulation in
the statute, depriving him of his property.
                                             131
188. We find no apparent conflict with the
words used in List III Entry 42 so as to infer
that the payment of compensation is inbuilt or
inherent either in the words “acquisition and
requisitioning” under List III Entry 42. Right
to claim compensation, therefore, cannot be
read into the legislative List III Entry 42.

189. Requirement   of   public   purpose,   for
deprivation of a person of his property under
Article 300-A, is a precondition, but no
compensation or nil compensation or its
illusiveness has to be justified by the State
on judicially justiciable standards. Measures
designed to achieve greater social justice, may
call for lesser compensation and such a
limitation by itself will not make legislation
invalid or unconstitutional or confiscatory.
In other words, the right to claim compensation
or the obligation to pay, though not expressly
included in Article 300-A, it can be inferred
in that article and it is for the State to
justify its stand on justifiable grounds which
may depend upon the legislative policy, object
and purpose of the statute and host of other
factors.

190. Article 300-A would be equally violated
if   the   provisions    of  law    authorising
deprivation of property have not been complied
with. While enacting Article 300-A Parliament
has only borrowed Article 31(1) (the “Rule of
Law” doctrine) and not Article 31(2) (which had
embodied the doctrine of eminent domain).
Article 300-A enables the State to put
restrictions on the right to property by law.
That law has to be reasonable. It must comply
with other provisions of the Constitution. The
limitation or restriction should not be
arbitrary or excessive or what is beyond what
is required in public interest. The limitation


                                              132
or restriction must not be disproportionate to
the situation or excessive.

191. The legislation providing for deprivation
of property under Article 300-A must be “just,
fair and reasonable” as understood in terms of
Articles 14, 19(1)(g), 26(b), 301, etc. Thus
in each case, courts will have to examine the
scheme of the impugned Act, its object, purpose
as also the question whether payment of nil
compensation or nominal compensation would
make the impugned law unjust, unfair or
unreasonable in terms of other provisions of
the Constitution as indicated above.

192. At this stage, we may clarify that there
is a difference between “no” compensation and
“nil” compensation. A law seeking to acquire
private property for public purpose cannot say
that “no compensation shall be paid”. However,
there   could    be   a   law    awarding   “nil”
compensation    in   cases    where   the   State
undertakes   to    discharge    the   liabilities
charged on the property under acquisition and
onus is on the Government to establish validity
of such law. In the latter case, the Court in
exercise of judicial review will test such a
law keeping in mind the above parameters.

209. Statutes are many which though deprive a
person of his property, have the protection of
Article 30(1-A), Articles 31-A, 31-B, 31-C and
hence are immune from challenge under Article
19 or Article 14. On deletion of Article
19(1)(f) the available grounds of challenge are
Article 14 [Ed.: It would seem that for
statutes not protected by Arts. 31-A, 31-B or
31-C, Art. 14 simpliciter is available as a
ground of challenge. For statutes protected by
Arts. 31-A, 31-B and 31-C, it would seem that
a challenge under Art. 14 would be maintainable
only when taken as a part of the basic
structure of the Constitution, as explained
                                                133
        in I.R. Coelho, (2007) 2 SCC 1.] , the basic
        structure and the rule of law, apart from the
        ground of legislative competence. In I.R.
        Coelho case [(2007) 2 SCC 1] the basic
        structure was defined in terms of fundamental
        rights as reflected under Articles 14, 15, 19,
        20, 21 and 32. In that case the Court held that
        statutes mentioned in Schedule IX are immune
        from challenge on the ground of violation of
        fundamental rights, but if such laws violate
        the basic structure, they no longer enjoy the
        immunity offered by Schedule IX.”
                                   (Emphasis supplied)


DOWN MEMORY LANE

PT. CHET RAM VASHIST (DEAD) BY LRS. V. MUNICIPAL
CORPORATION OF DELHI43


87. In the said case, the Municipal Corporation of

Delhi passed a Resolution that, building activity in

certain areas, be allowed, subject to the condition

that the open spaces for parks and schools was to be

transferred to the Corporation. This led to a civil

suit by the appellant, challenging the Resolution. This

Court found that Section 313 of the Delhi Municipal

Corporation Act, 1957, did not empower the Corporation

to claim any property in the manner done. It was further




43   (1995) 1 SCC 47
                                                      134
found that the Resolution was contrary to the language

used in Section 313 and violated a civil right, which

vests in every owner, to hold his land and transfer it

in accordance with law. The finding of the High Court

that condition was only one involving transfer of the

right of management, was not accepted. In fact, this

Court also held, inter alia, as follows:

     “5. The power directing transfer of the land
     has been exercised under Section 313 of the
     Act. This section falls in Chapter XV which
     deals with streets. The public streets are
     dealt from Section 298 to Section 311 whereas
     private streets are dealt from Section 312 to
     Section 330. Section 312 obliges an owner of
     any land utilising, selling, leasing out or
     otherwise disposing of the land for the
     construction of building to layout and make a
     street or streets giving access to the plots
     into which the land may be divided and connect
     it with an existing or public street. Section
     313 requires such owner to submit a layout plan
     before utilising the land for any of the
     purposes mentioned in Section 312 and send it
     to the Commissioner with a layout plan showing
     the particulars mentioned in clauses (a) to
     (e). The reservation or allotment of any site
     in the layout plan for any open space, park or
     school is to be provided by clause (b) of
     Section   313.   Section   316   entitles   the
     Commissioner to declare a private street to be
     a public street on the request of owners.
 Section   317    prohibits   a    person   from
     constructing or projecting any structure which
     will encroach upon, overhang or project into a
     private street. In fact the entire cluster of
     sections from 312 to 330 of which Section 313
 135
is a part, deals with private streets only.
There is no provision in this chapter or any
other provision in the Act which provides that
any space reserved for any open space or park
shall vest in the Corporation. Even a private
street can be declared to be a public on the
request of owners of the building and then only
it vests in the Corporation. In absence of any
provision, therefore, in the Act the open space
left for school or park in a private colony
cannot vest in the Corporation. That is why in
England whenever a private colony is developed
or a private person leaves an open space or
park to be used for public purpose he is
required to issue what is termed as ‘Blight
Notice’ to the local body to get the land
transferred in its favour on payment of
compensation. Section 313 which empowers the
Commissioner to sanction a layout plan, does
not contemplate vesting of the land earmarked
for a public purpose to vest in the Corporation
or to be transferred to it. The requirement in
law of requiring an owner to reserve any site
for any street, open space, park, recreation
ground, school, market or any other public
purposes is not the same as to claim that the
open space or park so earmarked shall vest in
the Corporation or stand transferred to it.
Even a plain reading of sub-section (5)
indicates that the land which is subject-matter
of a layout plan cannot be dealt with by the
owner except in conformity with the order of
the Standing Committee. In other words the
section imposes a bar on exercise of power by
the owner in respect of land covered by the
layout plan. But it does not create any right
or interest of the Corporation in the land so
specified. The resolution of the Standing
Committee, therefore, that the area specified
in the layout plan for the park and school
shall vest in the Corporation free of cost, was
not in accordance with law.”
                           (Emphasis supplied)

                                              136
88. Still further, the Court held as follows:


        “6. Reserving any site for any street, open
        space, park, school etc. in a layout plan is
        normally a public purpose as it is inherent in
        such reservation that it shall be used by the
        public in general. The effect of such
        reservation is that the owner ceases to be a
        legal owner of the land in dispute and he holds
        the land for the benefit of the society or the
        public in general. It may result in creating
        an obligation in nature of trust and may
        preclude the owner from transferring or selling
        his interest in it. It may be true as held by
        the High Court that the interest which is left
        in the owner is a residuary interest which may
        be nothing more than a right to hold this land
        in trust for the specific purpose specified by
        the coloniser in the sanctioned layout plan.
        But the question is, does it entitle the
        Corporation to claim that the land so specified
        should be transferred to the authority free of
        cost. That is not made out from any provision
        in the Act or on any principle of law. …”
                                    (Emphasis supplied)



T. VIJAYALAKSHMI AND OTHERS                        V.   TOWN
PLANNING MEMBER AND ANOTHER44
89. In this case, the appellants were the owners of

agricultural land, who had been permitted to use the

same      for   non-agricultural   purposes   in    2004.    An




44   (2006) 8 SCC 502
                                                            137
application was filed for approval of a building plan.

This Court, inter alia, held as follows:


        “15. The law in this behalf is explicit. Right
        of a person to construct residential houses in
        the residential area is a valuable right. The
        said right can only be regulated in terms of a
        regulatory statute but unless there exists a
        clear provision the same cannot be taken away.
        It is also a trite law that the building plans
        are required to be dealt with in terms of the
        existing law. Determination of such a question
        cannot be postponed far less taken away.
        Doctrine of legitimate expectation in a case
        of this nature would have a role to play.

                  xxx        xxx          xxx

        18. It is, thus, now well-settled law that an
        application for grant of permission for
        construction of a building is required to be
        decided in accordance with law applicable on
        the day on which such permission is granted.
        However, a statutory authority must exercise
        its jurisdiction within a reasonable time.
        (See Kuldeep   Singh v. Govt.    of    NCT   of
        Delhi [(2006) 5 SCC 702: (2006) 6 Scale 588].)”


PUNE   MUNICIPAL    CORPORATION AND
ANOTHER V. PROMOTERS AND BUILDERS
ASSOCIATION AND ANOTHER45
90. The matter arose under the Maharashtra Regional

Town Planning Act, 1966 (MRTP). The Development Control

Rules were directed to be amended by the Government


45   (2004) 10 SCC 796
                                                      138
under Section 37 of the said law. The case of the

respondents before this Court was that             the matter

travelled beyond the powers of the State Government

under     Section   37(2)   of   the   Act.   We   notice   the

following:


        “5. Making of DCR or amendments thereof are
        legislative functions. Therefore, Section 37
        has to be viewed as repository of legislative
        powers for effecting amendments to DCR. That
        legislative power of amending DCR is delegated
        to the State Government. As we have already
        pointed out, the true interpretation of Section
        37(2) permits the State Government to make
        necessary modifications or put conditions
        while granting sanction. In Section 37(2), the
        legislature has not intended to provide for a
        public hearing before according sanction. The
        procedure for making such amendment is provided
        in Section 37. Delegated legislation cannot be
        questioned for violating the principles of
        natural justice in its making except when the
        statute itself provides for that requirement.
        Where the legislature has not chosen to provide
        for any notice or hearing, no one can insist
        upon it and it is not permissible to read
        natural    justice   into   such    legislative
        activity. Moreover, a provision for “such
        inquiry as it may consider necessary” by a
        subordinate legislating body is generally an
        enabling    provision    to   facilitate    the
        subordinate    legislating   body   to   obtain
        relevant information from any source and it is
        not intended to vest any right in anybody.
        (Union of India v. Cynamide India Ltd. [(1987)
        2 SCC 720] , SCC paras 5 and 27. See
        generally H.S.S.K.      Niyami v. Union      of
        India [(1990)     4   SCC    516]    and Canara
        Bank v. Debasis Das [(2003) 4 SCC 557 : 2003
                                                            139
        SCC (L&S) 507] .) While exercising legislative
        functions,    unless     unreasonableness    or
        arbitrariness is pointed out, it is not open
        for    the    Court    to    interfere.    (See
        generally ONGC v. Assn.     of   Natural    Gas
        Consuming Industries of Gujarat [1990 Supp SCC
        397] .) Therefore, the view adopted by the High
        Court does not appear to be correct.

        6. DCR are framed under Section 158 of the Act.
        Rules framed under the provisions of a statute
        form part of the statute. (See General Officer
        Commanding-in-Chief v. Dr.    Subhash    Chandra
        Yadav [(1988) 2 SCC 351 : 1988 SCC (L&S) 542 :
        (1988) 7 ATC 296] , SCC para 14.) In other
        words, DCR have statutory force. It is also a
        settled position of law that there could be no
        “promissory estoppel” against a statute. (A.P.
        Pollution Control Board II v. Prof. M.V.
        Nayudu [(2001)   2   SCC   62]   ,    SCC   para
        69, STO v. Shree Durga Oil Mills [(1998) 1 SCC
        572] , SCC paras 21 and 22 and Sharma
        Transport v. Govt. of A.P. [(2002) 2 SCC 188]
        , SCC paras 13 to 24.) Therefore, the High
        Court again went wrong by invoking the
        principle of “promissory estoppel” to allow the
        petition filed by the respondents herein.”


TUKARAM   KANA   JOSHI   AND   OTHERS  V.
MAHARASHTRA    INDUSTRIAL    DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION AND OTHERS46

91. In the said case, the land of the appellants was

taken over by the agents of the State. Compensation,




46   (2013) 1 SCC 353
                                                       140
despite repeated requests, was not made available. This

Court held:


     “11. There are authorities which state that
     delay and laches extinguish the right to put
     forth a claim. Most of these authorities
     pertain to service jurisprudence, grant of
     compensation for a wrong done to them decades
     ago, recovery of statutory dues, claim for
     educational facilities and other categories of
     similar cases, etc. Though, it is true that
     there are a few authorities that lay down that
     delay and laches debar a citizen from seeking
     remedy, even if his fundamental right has been
     violated, under Article 32 or 226 of the
     Constitution, the case at hand deals with a
     different      scenario       altogether.     The
     functionaries of the State took over possession
     of the land belonging to the appellants without
     any sanction of law. The appellants had asked
     repeatedly for grant of the benefit of
     compensation. The State must either comply with
     the procedure laid down for acquisition, or
     requisition,     or    any   other    permissible
     statutory mode. There is a distinction, a true
     and    concrete     distinction,    between   the
     principle of “eminent domain” and “police
     power”    of    the     State.    Under   certain
     circumstances, the police power of the State
     may be used temporarily, to take possession of
     property but the present case clearly shows
     that neither of the said powers have been
     exercised. A question then arises with respect
     to the authority or power under which the State
     entered upon the land. It is evident that the
     act of the State amounts to encroachment, in
     exercise of “absolute power” which in common
     parlance is also called abuse of power or use
     of muscle power. To further clarify this
     position, it must be noted that the authorities
     have treated the landowner as a “subject” of

                                                     141
      medieval India, but not as a “citizen” under
      our Constitution.”


92. This has been followed in Bhimandas Ambwani (Dead)

Through Lrs. v. Delhi Power Company Limited47     (See

paragraph 13 of the said Judgment).


JILUBHAI NANBHAI KHACHAR AND OTHERS V.
STATE OF GUJARAT AND ANOTHER48
93. We have already adverted to it earlier.


STATE OF GUJARAT V. SHANTILAL MANGALDAS
AND OTHERS49
94. The said decision was rendered by a Constitution

Bench of this Court. The matter in issue was the

validity of Sections 55 and 67 of the Bombay Town

Planning Act (Act 27 of 1955). The High Court had

declared the provisions violative of Article 31(2) of

the Constitution. This Court embarked upon elaborate

consideration of the provisions of the Act, and it will

be profitable, if we advert to paragraph-22, wherein,

the Court, after referring to the provisions of Article


47 (2013) 14 SCC 195
48 1995 Supp (1) SCC 596
49 (1969) 1 SCC 509


                                                   142
31, as amended by the Fourth Amendment in the year

1955, proceeded to hold as follows:

     “22. The following principles emerge from an
     analysis of clauses (2) and (2-A): compulsory
     acquisition or requisition may be made for a
     public purpose alone, and must be made by
     authority of law. Law which deprives a person
     of property but does not transfer ownership of
     the property or right to possession of the
     property to the State or a corporation owned
     or controlled by the State is not a law for
     compulsory acquisition or requisition. The
     law, under the authority of which property is
     compulsorily acquired or requisitioned, must
     either fix the amount of compensation or
     specify the principles on which, and the manner
     in which, the compensation is to be determined
     and given. If these conditions are fulfilled
     the validity of the law cannot be questioned
     on the plea that it does not provide adequate
     compensation to the owner.

              xxx         xxx           xxx

     26. Article   31   guarantees   that   the law
     providing for compulsory acquisition must
     provide   for   determining   the    giving   of
     compensation for the property acquired. The
     expression “compensation” is not defined in the
     Constitution. Under the Land Acquisition Act
     compensation is always paid in terms of money.
     But that is no reason for holding that
     compensation which is guaranteed by Article
     31(2) for compulsory acquisition must be paid
     in terms of money alone. A law which provides
     for making satisfaction to an expropriated
     owner by allotment of other property may be
     deemed to be a law providing for compensation.
     In    ordinary    parlance    the     expression
     “compensation” means anything given to make
     things equivalent; a thing given to or to make

                                                    143
        amends for loss, recompense, remuneration or
        pay; it need not therefore necessarily be in
        terms of money. The phraseology of the
        Constitutional provision also indicates that
        compensation need not necessarily be in terms
        of money, because it expressly provides that
        the law may specify the principles on which,
        and the manner in which, compensation is to be
        determined and “given”. If it were to be in
        terms of money alone, the expression “paid”
        would have been more appropriate.”


95. In      the     course     of     its    Judgment,      the   Court

disapproved        observations       contained   in   P.    Vajravelu

Mudaliar      v.     Special        Deputy   Collector      for    Land

Acquisition and another50. Equally, the Court overruled

the decision of this Court in Union of India v. Metal

Corporation of India Ltd. and another51.

96. It was relying on these two judgments, inter alia,

that this Court found that the High Court had wrongly

concluded that in order that compensation based on

market value be sufficient for the purpose of Article

31(2), it must be a just equivalent. We may also notice

that the Court repelled the attempt on behalf of the

State that because the object of the Act was to promote




50   (1965) 1 SCR 614
51   (1967) 1 SCR 255)
                                                                   144
public health, it fell within the exception to Article

31(5)(b)(ii).

97.   Regarding purport of the Fourth Amendment, in

Shantilal Mangaldas (supra), this Court declared as

follows:


      “41. The principal effect of this amendment,
      in so far as that is relevant in this appeal,
      was to snap the link which, according to this
      Court, existed between clauses (1) and (2) —
      that was achieved by enacting clause (2-A);
      greater clarity was secured by enacting in
      clause (2) that property shall be compulsorily
      acquired only for a public purpose; and by
      authority    of   law   which   provides   for
      compensation, and either fixes the amount of
      compensation or specifies the principles on
      which, and the manner in which, compensation
      is to be determined and given; and that the
      law for acquisition or requisition shall not
      be called in question in any court on the
      ground that the compensation provided thereby
      is not adequate. By the amendment made in
      Article 31-A certain classes of statutes were
      placed with retrospective effect outside the
      purview of attack before the Courts on the
      ground of infringement of the fundamental
      rights under Articles 14, 19 and 31, and by
      the addition of certain Acts in the Ninth
      Schedule a challenge to those Acts that they
      infringed any fundamental rights in Part III
      could not be entertained. But the amendments
      made in Article 31 were not given any
      retrospective operation. The result was that
      in cases where acquisition was made pursuant
      to the statutes enacted before April 27, 1955,
      the   law   declared  in Mrs   Bela   Banerjee


                                                   145
        case and Subodh Gopal Base case continued to
        apply.”


98. The Judgment in Shantilal Mangaldas (supra) has

been     approved       of    and   followed    in   the   case   by   a

Constitution Bench in Prakash Amichand Shah v. State

of Gujarat and others52.

99. The Court repelled the argument that the decision

in Shantilal Mangaldas (supra) was overruled by the

Judgment       in       His     Holiness       Kesavananda    Bharati

Sripadagalvaru v. State of Kerala and another53.

100. This Court also made the following observations,

which incidentally are relied upon by the respondents

to contend that the developer of property would be

entitled to benefits when there is planned development:

        “16. The re-arrangement of titles in the
        various plots and reservation of lands for
        public purposes require financial adjustments
        to be made. The owner who is deprived of his
        land has to be compensated, and the owner who
        obtains a re-constituted plot in surroundings
        which are conducive to better sanitary living
        conditions has to contribute towards the
        expenses of the scheme. This is because on the
        making of a Town Planning Scheme the value of
        the plot rises and a part of the benefit which
        arises out of a unearned rise in prices is
52   (1986) 1 SCC 581
53   (1973) 4 SCC 225
                                                                   146
        directed to be contributed towards financing
        of the scheme which enables the residents in
        that area to more amenities, better facilities
        and healthier living conditions. …”


101. This Court in Babulal Badriprasad Varma v. Surat

Municipal Corporation and others54, while dealing with

the Gujarat Town Planning and Urban Development Act,

1976, inter alia, held:


        “33. We are, however, not unmindful of the fact
        that a statute of town planning ex facie is
        not a statute for acquisition of a property.
        An owner of a plot is asked to part therewith
        only for providing for better facilities of
        which he would also be a beneficiary. Every
        step taken by the State does not involve
        application of the doctrine of eminent domain.

        34. In this case, the appellant did not oppose
        the draft scheme. It accepted that the State
        had a right to do so. Existence of a public
        purpose and increase in the valuation of the
        property   was    admitted.   There   exists   a
        distinction in the action of the planning
        authority as regards vesting of a property in
        it and one so as to enable it to create a third-
        party interest vis-à-vis for the purpose of
        reallotment thereof. In the former case, the
        vesting of the land may be held to be an act
        of acquisition, whereas in the latter, it would
        be distribution of certain benefits having
        regard to the purpose sought to be achieved by
        a statute involving town planning. It was on
        that legal principle, this Court in State of
        Gujarat v. Shantilal Mangaldas [(1969) 1 SCC

54   (2008) 12 SCC 401
                                                       147
        509 : (1969) 3 SCR 341] opined that when a
        development is made, the owner of the property
        gets much more than what he would have got, if
        the same remained undeveloped in the process
        as by reason thereof he gets the benefit of
        living in a developed town having good town
        planning.”
                                       (Emphasis supplied)


102. In the recent Judgment, again, a Bench of three

learned Judges of this Court, followed the Judgment in

Chairman, Indore Vikas Pradhikaran (supra).


NARAYANRAO     JAGOBAJI  GOWANDE    PUBLIC
TRUST V. STATE OF MAHARASHTRA AND OTHERS55
103. The     dispute    revolved   around   a   condition   in   a

development agreement executed between the appellant-

Trust and the Nagpur Improvement Trust (for short,

‘NIT’). Under such condition, the appellant was to

transfer the land and/or primary school open land in

the layout free-of-cost and the NIT was free to dispose

of such land as per its Rules and Regulations. We notice

that the predecessor-in-interest of the appellant was

given permission by the NIT, under which, an area was




55   (2016) 4 SCC 443
                                                             148
reserved   for    a   primary   school   which   was    a   public

utility land. The NIT allotted the land in the layout

approved in favour of the appellant’s predecessor to a

third party for construction of a college. Several

contentions      were   arrayed    against   the       allotment,

including that the NIT did not have any power to insert

such a condition and that there was no power to acquire

land de hors the Act, under which, it was created. This

Court dismissed the appeal and upheld the view of the

High Court. In doing so, this Court held as follows:


     “34. We have carefully heard both the parties
     at length and have also given our conscious
     thought to the materials on record and the
     relevant provisions of law. We are of the view
     that the High Court in its judgment and order
     has rightly held that Respondent 1 State and
     Respondent 2 NIT are bound to stick to the
     development plan and scheme. It has placed
     reliance upon the decision of this Court
     in Indore Vikas Pradhikaran v. Pure Industrial
     Coke    &    Chemicals    Ltd. [Indore    Vikas
     Pradhikaran v. Pure    Industrial     Coke    &
     Chemicals Ltd., (2007) 8 SCC 705] , wherein
     this Court, while dealing with the aspect of
     town planning and Articles 300-A and 14 of the
     Constitution of India, has observed as under:
     (SCC p. 730, paras 46-47)
     “46. … The courts must make an endeavour to
     strike a balance between public interest on the
     one hand and protection of a constitutional
     right to hold property, on the other.

                                                              149
47. For   the   aforementioned  purpose,   an
endeavour should be made to find out as to
whether the statute takes care of public
interest in the matter vis-à-vis the private
interest, on the one hand, and the effect of
lapse and/or positive inaction on the part of
the State and other planning authorities, on
the other.”

             xxx     xxx      xxx

36. The High Court has, further, rightly held
that the impugned clause contained in the said
development agreement is neither void nor
illegal for want of consideration. It has also
been   rightly   held    by   it   that   after
consideration of the whole scheme of the NIT
Act,   particularly,   the   provisions   under
Sections 29 to 70 and 121 of the said Act read
with the terms and conditions of the said
development agreement entered into between the
parties, it is clear that the said development
agreement   creates   reciprocal   rights   and
obligations between the parties with some
objects.

             xxx     xxx      xxx

38. Thus, seeking abandonment of acquisition
of the land as provided under Section 68 of
the NIT Act is a huge benefit which the
appellant Trust has gained from the agreement.
Further, it is not open for the appellant Trust
to avail only the beneficial part of the said
development agreement to form a layout plan and
allow the sites to be allotted in favour of
the allottees, when it itself is not willing
to discharge the obligation of transferring the
reserved land for public utility purpose, as
agreed upon in the development agreement.

39. Further, the High Court has rightly
observed that another benefit derived by the
appellant Trust from the said development
                                              150
        agreement is immediate and reciprocal sanction
        for the development of the said land with
        permission for the commercial usage of the
        same, presuming that there would be no
        acquisition.”


YOGENDRA PAL AND OTHERS V. MUNICIPALITY,
BATHINDA AND ANOTHER56
104. The case arose under the Punjab Municipal Act,

1911. The State Government, acting under Section 192(3)

of     the    Municipal   Law,    sanctioned      a   Town    Planning

Scheme,       under   which,     an   area   of   22.23    acres    was

transferred to the Municipal Committee. No compensation

was paid to the owners. The High Court upheld the

provision. Section 192(1)(c), inter alia, provided for

transfer, to the Committee, of land, either on payment

of compensation or otherwise. The contention taken by

the respondent was that it was only a transfer of land

and     not    acquisition.      This    Court    found      that   the

provision did contain a restriction on the maximum

amount of land which could be transferred and also

maximum amount of land which could be                     transferred

without payment of compensation. This Court found that


56   (1994) 5 SCC 709
                                                                    151
there was no guideline in the Act providing for as to

when compensation was payable or could be denied. The

Court also took note of the width of the expression

‘public purpose’, for achieving which, the land could

be transferred. It was further noticed that the said

expression suggested that the purpose concerned cannot

be of benefit only and exclusively to the transferor-

landowner. It was to be a utility to members of the

public   in    general.       The   fact    that    the    transferor-

landowner      would    also     benefit,     did    not    make   any

difference.     The     use    of   the    word    ‘transferred’    as

against ‘acquired’ and the contention that, ‘therefore,

the rights of the land owner continued’, was rejected.

Section 192(c) was contrasted with Section 169 and it

was found that the latter provision was confined to use

of the land for laying public streets, and what is

more,    the     land     could      be     acquired       by   paying

compensation.          Section       169     also         contemplated

restoration to the original owner, if the land could

not be used as a public street. We may bear in mind the

following discussions in the context of the facts of

the case before us:

                                                                   152
“18. The next contention is that the transfer
of the land is also for the benefit of the
transferor landowner and in fact the balance
of the land which remains with him appreciates
in value to an extent which more than
sufficiently compensates him for the loss of
the land. Hence there is no need to pay him
separate compensation for the extent of land
up to 25 per cent transferred to the Municipal
Committee. The contention suffers from several
fallacies. In the first instance, as the
provisions of the section themselves point out,
the land is to be transferred for a public
purpose including for use as public street. The
purpose of the transfer itself suggests that
the transferor landowner is not exclusively to
be benefited by the public purpose. He enjoys
the benefit, if any, along with the other
members of the public. There is no reason why,
therefore, he should alone pay for the said
benefit in terms of his land. Secondly, the
public purpose which is served by the Municipal
Committee, assuming it increases the value of
the remaining land, also contributes to the
increase in the value of the land of all other
landowners,    which    lands   are   similarly
benefited by the said public purpose. There is,
therefore, no reason why the landowner whose
land is “transferred” for the purpose alone
should pay for the increase in the value of
his remaining land in terms of the transferred
land. In fact, whereas it is only the remaining
land of the transferor landowner which is
benefited by such increase in value, if any,
the whole of the land in the possession of the
other landowners is benefited by the accretion
in value. Thus, on both accounts, there is a
clear   violation    of  Article   14  of   the
Constitution to make only the transferor
landowner suffer for the public purpose. What
is further, it is problematic and is in the
realm of speculation as to whether the
appreciation of the value of the remaining
property of the transferor landowner will
                                              153
        always be equivalent to or more than the value
        of the land transferred to the Municipal
        Committee, assuming that the public purpose for
        which the land is taken over contributes to the
        increase in the value of the remaining
        property.   Lastly,   and   this   is   equally
        important, in many cases the accretion to the
        value of the remaining property may merely be
        on paper and be a poor consolation to the
        transferor landowner if he cannot or is unable
        for one reason or the other to sell or
        otherwise dispose of the said property. On the
        other hand, in such cases, the accretion in
        value may prove a burden if the property tax,
        wealth tax, estate duty etc. are calculated on
        the basis of the market value of the property.
        The so-called increase in the value of the
        property may thus prove a liability to those
        who cannot dispose of their property. Looked
        at from any angle, the argument that the
        transferor landowner is benefited because his
        remaining property appreciates in value and,
        therefore, he need not be paid separate
        compensation for the land which is transferred,
        is untenable in law. We thus find that the
        provisions of Section 192(1)(c) are violative
        of Article 14 of the Constitution.”


VIRENDER GAUR AND OTHERS V. STATE OF
HARYANA AND OTHERS57
105. In the said case, the appellant surrendered 25 per

cent of her land to the Municipality, which was a

condition for sanction for construction of a building.

The land stood vested with the Municipality. The land


57   (1995) 2 SCC 577
                                                      154
in   question   stood   earmarked   for   open   spaces.   A

Dharamshala came to be put-up for the Punjab Samaj

Sabha on the basis of allotment to it. It was contended

that in the construction of the Dharamshala, even if

there was a public purpose, the Government could not

direct the Municipality to permit land use, defeating

the scheme, which provided for keeping the land open.

This Court described environment ‘as a polycentric and

multifaceted problem, affecting human existence’.

106. The Court, in Virender Gaur (supra), further found

power to the Municipality under Section 66 to transfer

the land vested in it. The Court went on to hold, inter

alia, as follows:


     “11. It is seen that the open lands, vested in
     the Municipality, were meant for the public
     amenity to the residents of the locality to
     maintain   ecology,   sanitation,   recreation,
     playground and ventilation purposes. The
     buildings    directed    to   be    constructed
     necessarily   affect   the   health   and   the
     environment adversely, sanitation and other
     effects on the residents in the locality.
     Therefore, the order passed by the Government
     and the action taken pursuant thereto by the
     Municipality would clearly defeat the purpose
     of the scheme. Shri D.V. Sehgal, learned Senior
     Counsel, again contended that two decades have
     passed by and that, therefore, the Municipality
     is entitled to use the land for any purpose.

                                                       155
     We are unable to accept the self-destructive
     argument to put a premium on inaction. The land
     having been taken from the citizens for a
     public purpose, the Municipality is required
     to use the land for the protection or
     preservation of hygienic conditions of the
     local residents in particular and the people
     in general and not for any other purpose.
     Equally acceptance of the argument of Shri V.C.
     Mahajan encourages pre-emptive action and
     conduct,   deliberately    chartered   out   to
     frustrate the proceedings and to make the
     result fait accompli. We are unable to accept
     the argument of fait accompli on the touchstone
     of prospective operation of our order.”


107. This Court also distinguished Yogendra Pal (supra)

in this regard.

108. There is a contention of the appellants and the

writ petitioners that, at any rate, the law is an

expropriatory legislation. This is for the reason that

it operates to deprive a person of his land without his

consent. [See in this regard Chairman, Indore Vikas

Pradhikaran (supra), which has discussed this aspect

elaborately.] For reasons already given and to follow,

we are unable to agree.

109. We agree that the law, undoubtedly, is that the

planning law cannot be interpreted as justifying an

inroad into the rights of a private person to construct


                                                   156
a suitable building for the purpose of carrying on his

business.

110. In      Ravindra       Ramchandra     Waghmare    v.    Indore

Municipal Corporation and others58, after an elaborate

reference to Chairman, Indore Vikas Pradhikaran (supra)

and K.T. Plantations (supra), this Court, inter alia,

held as follows:

        “76. …It is apparent from the aforesaid dictum
        that Article 300-A enables the State to put
        restrictions on the right by law but the same
        should not be arbitrary or excessive or beyond
        what is required in public interest. The
        imposition   of   restriction   must   not   be
        disproportionate to a situation or statute.
        Legislation providing for deprivation of
        property under Article 300-A must be just, fair
        and reasonable. Thus, it cannot be said that
        illusory   compensation   is   provided   under
        Section 306 read with Section 387. The decision
        renders no help to the cause espoused on behalf
        of the appellants and on a closer scrutiny,
        rather counters it. Based on the aforesaid
        principles we find no malady in the provisions
        in question which may be required to be cured.”


111. No doubt, the Court, in the said case also, after

referring      to   Rajiv    Sarin   and   another    v.   State    of

Uttarakhand others59, found that the case at hand was




58   (2017) 1 SCC 667
59   (2011) 8 SCC 708
                                                                   157
not a case of no compensation. Incidentally, this Court

also   followed       the   Judgment    in    Shantilal      Mangaldas

(supra):


       “83. As already held a law seeking to acquire
       private property for public purpose cannot say
       that “no compensation” would be paid. The
       present case is a case of payment of “no
       compensation” at all. In the case at hand, the
       forest land which was vested in the State by
       operation of law cannot be said to be non-
       productive or unproductive by any stretch of
       imagination. The property in question was
       definitely a productive asset. That being so,
       the criteria to determine possible income on
       the date of vesting would be to ascertain such
       compensation paid to similarly situated owners
       of neighbouring forests on the date of vesting.
       Even otherwise, the Revenue Authority can
       always make an estimation of possible income
       on the date of vesting if the property in
       question had been exploited by the appellants
       and then calculate compensation on the basis
       thereof in terms of Sections 18(1)(cc) and
       19(1)(b) of the KUZALR Act.”


112.     In   Rajiv    Sarin     (supra),     the    U.P.    Zamindari

Abolition and Land Reforms Act, 1950, the Kumaun and

Uttarakhand       Abolition      and   Land   Reforms       Act,   1960,

introduced the U.P. Act in the Uttarakhand and Kumaun

region. The rights of every intermediary in respect of

forest     land    came     to    be   vested       with    the    State

Government. This was as a result of an amendment. The

                                                                    158
amendment and Notice came to be challenged. This Court,

speaking through a Constitution Bench, held, inter

alia, as follows:


     “68. The incident of deprivation of property
     within the meaning of Article 300-A of the
     Constitution normally occurred mostly in the
     context of public purpose. Clearly, any law,
     which deprives a person of his private property
     for private interest, will be amenable to
     judicial review. In the last sixty years,
     though the concept of public purpose has been
     given quite wide interpretation, nevertheless,
     the “public purpose” remains the most important
     condition in order to invoke Article 300-A of
     the Constitution.

     69. With regard to claiming compensation, all
     modern Constitutions which are invariably of
     democratic character provide for payment of
     compensation as the condition to exercise the
     right of expropriation. The Commonwealth of
     Australia Constitution Act, the French Civil
     Code (Article 545), the Fifth Amendment to the
     Constitution   of   USA    and   the   Italian
     Constitution provided principles of “just
     terms”, “just indemnity”, “just compensation”
     as reimbursement for the property taken, have
     been provided for.
     70. Under the Indian Constitution, the field
     of legislation covering claim for compensation
     on deprivation of one's property can be traced
     to Schedule VII List III Entry 42 of the
     Constitution.   The    Constitution   (Seventh
     Amendment) Act, 1956 deleted Schedule VII List
     I Entry 33, List II Entry 36 and reworded List
     III Entry 42 relating to “acquisition and
     requisitioning of property”. The right to
     property being no more a fundamental right, a

                                                   159
legislation enacted under the authority of law
as   provided   in   Article   300-A   of   the
Constitution is not amenable to judicial review
merely for alleged violation of Part III of the
Constitution.

             xxx     xxx      xxx

73. It was further submitted that the inherent
powers of public purpose and eminent domain are
embodied in Article 300-A, and Entry 42, List
III,   “acquisition   and   requisitioning   of
property” which necessarily connotes that the
acquisition and requisitioning of property
will be for a public use and for compensation
and whenever a person is deprived of his
property, the limitations as implied in Article
300-A as well as Entry 42, List III will come
into the picture and the Court can always
examine the legality and validity of the
legislation in question. It was further
submitted that awarding nil compensation is
squarely amenable to judicial review under
Articles 32 and 226 of the Constitution of
India.

             xxx      xxx      xxx
77. Article 31(2) of the Constitution has since
been repealed by the Constitution (Forty-
fourth Amendment) Act, 1978. It is to be noted
that Article 300-A was inserted by the
Constitution (Forty-fourth Amendment) Act,
1978 by practically re-inserting Article 31(1)
of the Constitution. Therefore, right to
property is no longer a fundamental right but
a right envisaged and conferred by the
Constitution and that also by retaining only
Article   31(1)   of   the   Constitution   and
specifically deleting Article 31(2), as it
stood. In view of the aforesaid position the
entire concept of right to property has to be
viewed with a different mindset than the
mindset which was prevalent during the period
when the concept of eminent domain was the
                                              160
      embodied provision of fundamental rights. But
      even now as provided under Article 300-A of the
      Constitution the State can proceed to acquire
      land for specified use but by enacting a law
      through State Legislature or by Parliament and
      in the manner having force of law.”


113. The Court also reiterated the distinction between

‘no compensation’ and ‘Nil compensation’, as laid down

in K.T. Plantations (supra). The Court proceeded to

find that it was a case of ‘no compensation’ at all,

and   therefore,   it   attracted   the   vice   of   illegal

deprivation of property and gave relief on the said

basis. This is after finding that the property in

question was a productive asset.

114. In W.P. No. 591/15, the challenge is to Regulation

29(7)(a) and Annexure XX. It is first necessary to

notice the scheme of Regulation 29(7).

      “29(7) (a) The space set apart for roads
      (except those which may remain private) and the
      10% area reserved for recreational purposes
      shall be transferred to the Authority or Agency
      or the Local Body designated by the Authority
      free of cost through a registered gift deed
      before the actual approval of the layout under
      the provisions of the T & CP Act. The exact
      mode of conveyance should be consistent with
      the relevant enactment and regulations.

      (b) In cases of industrial estates developed
      by Government agencies the Authority reserves
                                                         161
        the right to allow them to retain the spaces
        set apart for roads and the recreational spaces
        as parks/play grounds and maintain them for the
        purposes to the satisfaction of the Authority.

        (c) The Authority reserves the right to reserve
        space for recessed bus stops as part of the
        road space in the layouts exceeding 2 hectares,
        where found necessary on public interest and
        this part of the road space also be transferred
        free of cost as stated in the sub rule 7(a)
        above.”


115. Regulation 29(3)(b) deals with the width of the

streets and roads within the layout. It inter alia

provides for the width and the streets of the roads and

passages. Thereunder, in the remarks column, it is

provided that starting with the minimum width of 7.2

meters in regard to streets intended to serve not more

than 16 plots / or subject to a maximum length of 120

meters, all the streets become public.             The common

refrain found in the remarks column is that that all

such     streets   shall   become   public.   We   must   next

specifically advert to Regulation 29(6):

   “29(6) Reservation of land for recreational
   purposes in a layout or sub’ division for
   residential,    commercial,    industrial     or
   combination of such uses shall be as follows.


       Extent of layout         Reservation
                                                          162
(1)                     (2)
For the first      3000 Nil
square metres

Between 3000            10 per cent of the area
                        excluding toads or in
                        the    alternative   he
                        shall
                        pay the market value of
                        equivalent   land   and
                        excluding the first
                        square    metres   3000
                        square metres as per
                        the valuation of the
                        registration
                        and 10,000 department.
                        "No such area reserved
                        shall   measures   less
                        than 100
                        square metres square
                        metres with a minimum
                        dimension     of     10
                        metres."

Above  10,000    square 10 per cent of the area
metres                  excluding roads. It is
                        obligatory to make the
                        reservation    and   no
                        equivalent land cost in
                        lieu· of the same is
                        acceptable.


(a) The land for community recreational purposes
shall be restricted to ground level, in a shape
and location to be specified by the Chennai
Metropolitan Development Authority. The land so
reserved shall be free from any ·construction by
the layout owner, developer or promoter

(b) The building and use of land shall conform
to the conditions that may be imposed while
sanctioning the layout. The space set apart for

                                                  163
   commercial, institutional, industrial or other
   uses shall be deemed to be zoned for commercial,
   institutional; industrial or corresponding uses
   under the Master Plan.”


116. We may notice at this juncture that there is no

challenge     to   Regulation    29(6).    The    second      most

important   aspect    we    notice   is   that   the   land    for

community recreational purposes shall be restricted to

the ground level in a shape and location to be specified

by the CMDA. Further the land reserved is to be free

from any construction by the layout owner, developer

and promoter. Further the use of the land shall conform

to the conditions that may be imposed while sanctioning

the layout.

117. Before we pass on to the impugned regulation,

namely, Regulation 29 (7) (a), we must also undoubtedly

notice Annexure XX which is also under challenge.


                           “ANNEXURE XX
   Reservation of land for community recreational
   purposes in case of special buildings/ Group
   Developments/      multi-storeyed     building
   developments
   (1) The reservation of land for community
   recreational purposes such as park / playground
   shall be as given below at gr9und level in a
   shape and location 'abutting a public road to be
                                                              164
specified by Chennai Metropolitan Development
Authority:
    Extent of site            Reservation
(a)    For the first              Nil
        3,000 square
           metres
(b)    Between 3,000     10%   of    the   area
     square metres and   excluding roads or in
       10,000 square     the   alternative   he
           metres        shall pay the market
                         value      of      the
                         equivalent        land
                         excluding the first
                         3000 sq.m. as per the
                         valuation    of    the
                         Registration
                         Department, only where
                         it is not possible to
                         provide open space due
                         to           ·physical
                         constraints. No such
                         area reserved shall
                         measure less than 100
                         square metres with a
                         minimum dimension of
                         10 metres.
                         The space so reserved
                         shall be transferred
                         to the Authority or to
                         the     Local     body
                         designated by it, free
                         of cost, through a
                         registered gift deed.
                         In       cases      of
                         residential
                         developments,      the
                         Authority or the local
                         body   concerned   may
                         permit the Residents
                         Association or Flat
                         Owner's    Association
                         for maintaining such
                         reserved space as park

                                                  165
                       / playground and in
                       such cases where the
                       Authority decides to
                       permit the Resident's
                       Association or Flat
                       Owner's     Association
                       for maintaining it,
                       direct access from a
                       public road for the
                       reserved area may not
                       be required, and right
                       of   access    to   the
                       Authority or the local
                       body concerned through
                       set back space shall
                       be transferred through
                       a registered gift deed
                       along      with     the
                       reserved space.
(c)     Above 10,000   Ten per cent of the
       square metres   area excluding road
                       shall be reserved and
                       this space shall be
                       transferred    to   the
                       Authority or to the
                       local body designated
                       by it, free of cost,
                       through a gift deed.
                       It is obligatory to
                       reserve the 10 per
                       cent of the site area
                       and no charge can be
                       accepted in lieu iri
                       case    of    the   new
                       developments         or
                       redevelopments.

(2) The site so reserved shall be exclusive of
'the setback spaces and. spacing between blocks
prescribed in these rules, and shall· be free
from any construction / structure.


                                                 166
      (3) For the purpose of this regulation, existing
      development is defined as one where the extent
      of ground area covered by structures already
      existing (prior to application for planning
      permission) is 25 per cent and above of the total
      site area.
      (4)   In   case   of   additions   to   existing
      developments, where it is difficult to leave the
      10 per cent area as open space for community
      recreational purposes, the Authority reserves
      the right to collect the market value of
      equivalent land in lieu of the land to be
      reserved. However, if on a future date, the
      applicant wants to demolish the existing
      structure and raise new structures on the site
      in question, the community recreational space as
      per the rule shall be reserved.
      (5) The Authority reserves· the right to enforce
      the maintenance of such reserved lands by the
      owner to the satisfaction of the Authority or
      order the owner to transfer the land to the
      Authority or any local body designated by it free
      of cost, through a registered gift deed. The
      Authority or the local body designated by it, as
      the case may be, reserves the right to decide on
      entrusting   the   maintenance    work   to   any
      institution / individual on the merits of the
      case.”


118. It will be noticed on a perusal of Annexure XX that

the reservation for community recreation purposes such

as park, playground is to be at ground level in a shape

and location abutting a public road to be specified by

the    CDMA.   Thereafter,   the   requirement   relating    to

executing the gift deed in respect of layout in excess


                                                            167
of 10000 square meters is laid down. It is after this

that we must notice Regulation 29 (7)(a).

     “29(7)(a) The space set apart for. roads
     (except those which may remain private) and the
     10% area reserved for recreational purposes
     shall be transferred to the Authority or Agency
     or the Local Body designated by the Authority
     free of cost through a registered gift deed
     before the actual approval of the layout under
     the provisions of the T & CP Act. The exact
     mode of conveyance should be consistent with
     the relevant enactment and regulations.”


119. From the additional affidavit which we have already

noticed, the challenge is limited by the petitioner to

the stipulation in Regulation 29(7)(a) so far as the

requirement of transferring the space set apart for

recreational purposes. In other words, the petitioners

accept the validity of Regulation 29(7)(a) otherwise.

Rule 29 reads as follows: -


     “29. Layout and sub-division regulations:
     This regulation seeks to ensure access to plots
     by 'way of roads and private passages, creating
     hierarchy of roads depending on the road length
     and intensity of
     developments in the area and also to provide
     adequate linkages to the existing roads and
     proposed roads in the Master Plan and Detailed
     Development Plan and further to provide proper
     circulation pattern in the area, providing
     required recreational spaces such as parks /
                                                    168
playgrounds, and providing spaces for common
amenities such as schools, post and telegraph
offices, fire stations, police stations etc.
(1) The minimum extent of plots and frontage
shall be as prescribed for various uses and
types of developments given in the DR Nos.
25,26,27 and 28.

(2) (a) The minimum width of the public
streets/road on which the site abuts or gains
access shall be 7.2m. for residential layout
developments and 9m. for industrial layout
developments. For subdivisions the minimum
width of the passage /public streets/road on
which the site abuts or gains access shall be
as required for different uses and types of
developments.

(b) The minimum width stated above shall be the
existing width of the road and not the street
alignment prescribed.

For residential development

“29(3) The width of the streets/roads and
passages in the layouts. /subdivisions /
amalgamations shall conform to the minimum
requirements given below:

(a) for Residential developments

 Description        Minimum     Remarks
 (1)
                    Width       (3)
                    (2)
 A. Passage '                   The passage
 (i) In areas of                will remain
 Economically                   private.
 Weaker
 Section and· for   1.0 metre
 continuous
 building area:

                                              169
a)   For   single 1.5 metre
plot
b) For two to
four plots
(ii) When it is   3.0 metres     The passage
intended to                      will remain
serve upto two                   private
plots and length
of the passage
does not exceed
40 metres)

(iii) When it is    3.6 metres   -Do-
intended to
serve up to
four plots and
length of the
passage does not
exceed 80
metres)
(iv) When it is     4.8 metres   -Do-
intended to
serve up tb
ten plots and
length of the
passage does
not exceed 100
metres)
B. Streets and
Roads
(i) Streets         7.2 metres   All streets
intended to                      shall become
serve not more                   public
than 16 plots and
/ or subject to a
maximum    length
of 120 metres
(ii) Streets        9.0 metres   All streets
intended to                      shall become
serve not more.                  public
than 20 plots
and / or subject
to a maximum

                                                170
   length of 240
   metres
   (iii) Roads of      34.0        All    streets
   length more than    metres      shall   become
   240 metres but                  public
   below 400 metres


   (iv) Roads of       18.0        All    streets
   length between      metres      shall   become
   400 metres to                   public
   1,000 metres


   (v) Roads of        24.0        All streets
   length more than    metres      shall become
   1000 metres                     public



29(3)(b) for Industrial Development


 Description          Minimum      Remarks
 (1)                  width of     (3)
                      passage
                      (2)
 (1) When it is       5.0 metres   The passage
 intended to                       will remain
 serve only                        private
 one plot and
 length of the
 passage does not
 exceed 100
 metres
 (2) When it is       7.2 metres   -Do-
 intended to
 serve two to
 five plots and
 the length of
 the passage
 does not exceed
 120
                                                    171
    metres
    (3) When it is     12.0 metres   The street
    intended to                      shall become
    serve more than                  public.
    5 plots


   Note: Not withstanding anything contained above
   Authority reserves the right to revise layouts
   proposed by the applicant and applied for
   sanction in order to provide for better adequate
   linkages proper circulation pattern requirements
   considering local conditions etc.”


120. It becomes clear that in regard to streets and

roads what is contemplated under the regulation is that

under 29 (3)(a) (B) all streets will become public.

This is to be read along with Regulation 29(7)(a).

It is apparently to ensure that the roads which are

covered by 29(3)(a)(B) which are to be treated as

public are so maintained that it is insisted under

29(7)(a) that a gift deed be executed. In other words,

keeping in mind the preambular portion of Regulation

29 which proclaims that the regulation seeks to provide

access to plots by way of roads and private passages

creating a hierarchy of roads based on road length,

intensity of developments in the area and also provide

adequate linkages to the existing roads and proposed


                                                     172
roads in the Master Plan and a detailed development

plan and to provide proper circulation pattern in the

area inter alia, we must arrive at the conclusion that

visionary perspective of town planning would require

an   imaginative       full   play       being   given.   Meticulous

requirements of futuristic needs of an ever-growing

Metropolis when a large area such as what would be

found in a layout of more than 10000 square meters

which is nearly one hectare of land in the metropolitan

area   must    be    factored      in.    Circulation     of   traffic

between parts of the area would require the roads being

thrown open to the public so that different parts of

the metropolitan area can be easily accessed. In fact,

even   the    writ    petitioner     by    seeking   to    limit   the

challenge     in     the   first    place    only    to   Regulation

29(7)(a) and not to Regulation 29(3)(a)(B) under which

anyway the streets are declared as public acknowledges

the need for and justification for the declaration of

roads being public.

121. The argument of the respondent appears to be as

follows:


                                                                   173
     The execution of a gift deed acts as a safety valve

or   a   safeguard   to   check   the   possibility   that   the

developer would resile from the assurance or violate

the guarantee that the land, which is reserved as an

open space, will not be constructed upon. In other

words, if the execution of the gift deed is insisted

upon to ensure that in the future, there would not be

any contravention of the requirement, inter alia, that

the area be used as an open space, then, the complaint,

which is lodged against the impugned Rule, as also the

Regulation, may not stand scrutiny. In regard to the

impugned Regulation, it must be borne in mind, as we

have already noticed that in the additional affidavit

filed by the Writ Petitioner in Writ Petition (C) No.

591 of 2015, the challenge in the writ petition has

been limited to the latter part of the provision, i.e.,

the requirement to transfer free-of-cost, through a

registered gift deed, the 10 per cent recreational area

reserved for recreational purposes only and not the

space set apart for roads.        Here, we must observe that

as already found by us, that there is no challenge to




                                                             174
Regulation 29(6). The writ petitioner does not seek to,

bring under a cloud, Regulation 29(7)(a) otherwise.


122. The result of the above discussion is as follows:


    We must proceed on the basis that Regulation 29(6)

holds good.     This means that when the layout is above

10,000 square meters, reservation of 10 per cent for

recreational    purposes    has   to     be    made.    Regulation

29(6)(a) stipulates that the land for the communal and

recreational purposes, is         to be restricted to the

ground level and in a shape and location to be specified

by the Authority. It is also to be reserved free from

any construction. Therefore, the reservation, which is

mandated in terms of Regulation 29(6)(a), and which

cannot be a subject matter of a claim for compensation

under Section 39 of the Act, is to become the subject

matter of the gift deed. The execution of the gift

deed,   if     it   is   understood       as    merely       as    an

insurmountable obstacle for an unscrupulous developer

to get around the laudable mandate to preserve the

requisite    area   as   open   space,    cannot       be   rendered

vulnerable.    Even if, no gifts were to be executed, the


                                                                  175
property covered by the open space requirement, would

be put beyond the domain and control of the developer.

Future     generations      of      successors-in-interest      or

anyone, who claims under him, will be                effectively

prevented from setting up any claim over the area.

Viewed in this perspective and understanding the gift

as not conferring ownership of the area comprised in

the    open   space,   we   would    think   that   the   impugned

provisions would pass muster. It would prevent any kind

of abuse. It is clear that the Regulation, properly

understood, prescribe for the open space and merely

provides for the facilitation and preservation of the

open space.


A BRIEF LOOK AT THE FIFTH AMENDMENT CASES
IN THE UNITED STATES


123.     The Fifth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution,

inter alia, declares ‘nor shall private property be

taken for public use without just compensation’. This

limb of the Fifth Amendment has spawned a large body

of case law. We may only advert to a few of them. In

Agins (supra), the brief facts were as follows:


                                                              176
    The owners of a five-acre parcel of unimproved land

challenged the placing of the land by adopting of

Zoning Ordinances, by which, the land was placed in

residential planned development and open space zone,

which permitted the owners to build between 1 and 5

single   family   residences.    The    appellants   asserted

infraction of the Fifth and the Fourteenth Amendments

and sought damages for inverse condemnation. (Inverse

condemnation      amounts   to         proceedings    seeking

compensation for compulsorily acquiring land without

there being any formal proceedings for acquisition).

The challenge was repelled by the U.S. Supreme Court.

It was found that there was no violation of the Takings

Clause in the Fifth Amendment. It must be made clear

that the Taking Clause is based on the prohibition

against the taking of private property for public use

without just compensation. The Court, inter alia, held

as follows:

     “The application of a general zoning law to
     particular property effects a taking if the
     ordinance does not substantially advance
     legitimate state interests, see Nectow v.
     Cambridge, 277 U.S. 183, 188, 48 S.Ct. 447,
     448, 72 L.Ed. 842 (1928), or denies an owner
     economically viable use of his land, see Penn

                                                         177
        Central Transp. Co. v. New York City, 438 U.S.
        104, 138, n. 36, 98 S.Ct. 2646, 2666, 57
        L.Ed.2d 631 (1978). The determination that
        governmental action constitutes a taking is,
        in essence, a determination that the public at
        large, rather than a single owner, must bear
        the burden of an exercise of state power in
        the public interest. Although no precise rule
        determines when property has been taken,
        see Kaiser Aetna v. United States, 444 U.S.
        164, 100 S.Ct. 383, 62 S.Ct. 332 (1979), the
        question necessarily requires a weighing of
        private and public interests. The seminal
        decision in Euclid v. Ambler Co., 272 U.S. 365,
        47 S.Ct. 114, 71 L.Ed. 303 (1926), is
        illustrative. In that case, the landowner
        challenged   the    constitutionality    of   a
        municipal ordinance that restricted commercial
        development of his property. Despite alleged
        diminution in value of the owner's land, the
        Court held that the zoning laws were facially
        constitutional.   They   bore   a   substantial
        relationship to the public welfare, and their
        enactment inflicted no irreparable injury upon
        the landowner.”


124. In     James   Patrick   Nollan   v.   Calefornia   Coastal

Commission60, the following were the facts:

       The prospective purchasers of a beach front plot,

which was located between two public beaches, proposed

to satisfy a condition on their option to purchase by

pulling down an old bungalow on the premises. It was

to be replaced with a larger house. The respondent


60   483 US 825, 97 L Ed 2d 677,
                                                            178
Commission stipulated the condition that purchasers

must give the public an easement to pass across the

portion of the property which lay between the mean high

tide   line.   The   purchasers   took   shelter   under   the

Takings Clause. In 5:4 Majority Judgment, the Court

took the view that the Takings Clause was offended. In

the course of the Judgment, the Court held, inter alia:

       “[1b,   5]    “Given,   then,   that    requiring
       uncompensated conveyance of the easement
       outright     would   violate    the    Fourteenth
       Amendment,     the  question   becomes    whether
       requiring it to be conveyed as a condition for
       issuing a land-use permit alters the outcome.
       We   have    long   recognized   that    land-use
       regulation does not effect a taking if it
       “substantially advance[s] legitimate state
       interests” and does not “den[y] an owner
       economically viable use of his land,” Agins v.
       Tiburon, 447 U.S. 255, 260, 100 S.Ct. 2138,
       2141, 65 L.Ed.2d 106 (1980). See also Penn
       Central    Transportation   Co.   v.   New   York
       City, 438 U.S. 104, 127, 98 S.Ct. 2646, 2660,
       57 L.Ed.2d 631 (1978) (“[A] use restriction may
       constitute a ‘taking’ if not reasonably
       necessary to the effectuation of a substantial
       government purpose”).”
                 xxx          xxx           xxx

       “[1c] The Commission argues that a permit
       condition that serves the same legitimate
       police-power purpose as a refusal to issue the
       permit should not be found to be a taking if
       the refusal to issue the permit would not
       constitute a taking. We agree. Thus, if the
       Commission   attached  to   the  permit   some

                                                           179
condition that would have protected the
public's    ability     to    see    the     beach
notwithstanding construction of the new house—
for example, a height limitation, a width
restriction, or a ban on fences—so long as the
Commission could have exercised its police
power (as we have assumed it could) to forbid
construction    of    the    house    altogether,
imposition of the condition would also be
constitutional. Moreover (and here we come
closer to the facts of the present case), the
condition would be constitutional even if it
consisted of the requirement that the Nollans
provide a viewing spot on their property for
passersby with whose sighting of the ocean
their new house would interfere. Although such
a requirement, constituting a permanent grant
of continuous access to the property, would
have to be considered a taking if it were not
attached   to    a   development    permit,    the
Commission's     assumed    power    to     forbid
construction of the house in order to protect
the public's view of the beach must surely
include the power to condition construction
upon some concession by the owner, even a
concession of property rights, that serves the
same end. If a prohibition designed to
accomplish that purpose would be a legitimate
exercise of the police power rather than a
taking, it would be strange to conclude that
providing the owner an alternative to that
prohibition    which   accomplishes    the    same
purpose is not. The evident constitutional
propriety    disappears,     however,    if    the
condition substituted for the prohibition
utterly fails to further the end advanced as
the justification for the prohibition.”




                                                 180
125. In Florance Dolan v. City of Tigard61, again the

scope of the Fifth Amendment or rather the Takings

Clause thereunder, fell for consideration. The owner

of a city plot applied for a building permit for a

bigger      store     than     she   had      with   certain    other

facilities,        including    parking    area.     The   permission

though granted came with two conditions. The owner was

to dedicate to the city, as a greenway, a portion of

her lot within the 100-year floodplain of a creek,

which flowed through one corner and along one boundary

of the lot. The owner had also to dedicate to the city

as a pedestrian/bicycle pathway, an additional 15-foot

strip of land adjacent to the floodplain. Her request

for variance of the conditions was rejected. This stand

was approved by the Authorities as also the Court of

Appeals with four learned Judges dissenting with the

Majority, remitted the matter back. Distinguishing the

decision      in    Village    of    Euclid    v.    Ambler    Reality

Company62         and Agins (supra), the Court held, inter

alia, as follows:



61   512 US 374
62   272 US 365
                                                                  181
“9. The sort of land use regulations discussed
in the cases just cited, however, differ in two
relevant particulars from the present case.
First, they involved essentially legislative
determinations classifying entire areas of the
city,   whereas    here  the   city   made   an
adjudicative      decision     to     condition
petitioner's application for a building permit
on an individual parcel. Second, the conditions
imposed were not simply a limitation on the use
petitioner might make of her own parcel, but a
requirement that she deed portions of the
property     to     the    city.     In Nollan,
supra, we held that governmental authority to
exact such a condition was circumscribed by the
Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments. Under the
well-settled doctrine of “unconstitutional
conditions,” the government may not require a
person to give up a constitutional right—here
the right to receive just compensation when
property is taken for a public use—in exchange
for a discretionary benefit conferred by the
government where the benefit sought has little
or no relationship to the property. See Perry
v. Sindermann, 408 U.S. 593, 92 S.Ct. 2694, 33
L.Ed.2d 570 (1972); Pickering v. Board of Ed.
of Township High School Dist. 205, Will
Cty., 391 U.S. 563, 568, 88 S.Ct. 1731, 1734,
20 L.Ed.2d 811 (1968).

Petitioner contends that the city has forced
her to choose between the building permit and
her right under the Fifth Amendment to just
compensation   for   the    public   easements.
Petitioner does not quarrel with the city's
authority to exact some forms of dedication as
a condition for the grant of a building permit,
but challenges the showing made by the city to
justify these exactions. She argues that the
city has identified “no special benefits”
conferred on her, and has not identified any
“special quantifiable burdens” created by her
new store that would justify the particular

                                              182
     dedications required from her which are not
     required from the public at large.”


                  xxx     xxx      xxx

     “[1c, 2d, 11a] We think the “reasonable
     relationship” test adopted by a majority of the
     state courts is closer to the federal
     constitutional norm than either of those
     previously discussed. But we do not adopt it
     as such, partly because the term “reasonable
     relationship” seems confusingly similar to the
     term “rational basis” which describes the
     minimal level of scrutiny under the Equal
     Protection    Clause    of    the    Fourteenth
     Amendment. We think a term such as “rough
     proportionality” best encapsulates what we
     hold to be the requirement of the Fifth
     Amendment. No precise mathematical calculation
     is required, but the city must make some sort
     of individualized determination that the
     required dedication is related both in nature
     and extent to the impact of the proposed
     development.”


126. The remand was limited to the first condition. In

regard to the second condition, viz., dedication for

the pedestrian bicycle pathway, the Court held as

follows:

     “[1g,     13]    With     respect    to     the
     pedestrian/bicycle pathway, we have no doubt
     that the city was correct in finding that the
     larger retail sales facility proposed by
     petitioner will increase traffic on the streets
     of the Central Business District. The city
     estimates that the proposed development would
     generate roughly 435 additional trips per
     day.9 Dedications for streets, sidewalks, and
                                                   183
     other public ways are generally reasonable
     exactions to avoid excessive congestion from a
     proposed property use. But on the record before
     us, the city has not met its burden of
     demonstrating that the additional number of
     vehicle   and   bicycle  trips   generated   by
     petitioner's development reasonably relate to
     the city's requirement for a dedication of the
     pedestrian/bicycle pathway easement. The city
     simply found that the creation of the pathway
     “could offset some of the traffic demand ...
     and lessen the increase in traffic congestion.”

     As Justice Peterson of the Supreme Court of
     Oregon explained in his dissenting opinion,
     however, “[t]he findings of fact that the
     bicycle pathway system ‘could offset some of
     the traffic demand’ is a far cry from a finding
     that the bicycle pathway system will, or
     is likely to, offset some of the traffic
     demand.” 317 Ore., at 127, 854 P.2d, at
     447 (emphasis   in   original).    No   precise
     mathematical calculation is required, but the
     city must make some effort to quantify its
     findings in support of the dedication for the
     pedestrian/bicycle    pathway     beyond    the
     conclusory statement that it could offset some
     of the traffic demand generated.”


127. No doubt, there were vigorous dissents expressed

by the four learned Judges.        In the dissent by Justice

Stevens,     with   whom     Justice    Blackmun    and   Justice

Ginsburg     agreed,   the     essential    nexus    requirement

propounded    in    Nollan    (supra)    was   recognised.    The

dissenting Judges, however, opposed the employment of

the ‘rough proportionality’ requirement. Decrying the

                                                             184
consequences that may follow from the requirement to

make     ‘individualised      determinations’,      the    learned

Judges found that the questions could be answered under

the framework of the existing caselaw. The learned

Judges also found that there was no basis for applying

the    ‘Unconstitutional      Conditions’     Doctrine.    We   are

tempted    to   and    rightfully      so,   to   advert   to   the

following observations in the dissenting Judgments in

regard     to   the    true    place    of    the   Doctrine     of

Unconstitutional Conditions:


       “Even if Dolan should accept the city's
       conditions in exchange for the benefit that she
       seeks, it would not necessarily follow that she
       had been denied “just compensation” since it
       would be appropriate to consider the receipt
       of that benefit in any calculation of “just
       compensation.”

                 xxx            xxx               xxx

       “In this respect, the Court's reliance on the
       “unconstitutional   conditions”   doctrine  is
       assuredly novel, and arguably incoherent. The
       city's conditions are by no means immune from
       constitutional    scrutiny.   The    level  of
       scrutiny, however, does not approximate the
       kind of review that would apply if the city
       had insisted on a surrender of Dolan's First
       Amendment   rights    in    exchange    for  a
       building permit.”




                                                                185
128. In Linda Lingle, Governor of Hawaii, et al. v.

Chevron U.S.A.INC.63 in the context of a State statute

limiting the rent that oil companies could charge to

its dealer who lease service stations owned by the

companies took the view after noticing Nollan (supra)

and     Dolan    (supra)     which   we    have   referred   to   that

“substantially advances” formula is not a valid Takings

test initiated in Agnis (supra) and it was concluded

that      it     has    no    proper      place   in   the   Takings

jurisdiction.

129. In Village of Euclid, Ohio Et Al v. Ambler Reality

Company64,       the village of Euclid lay in the form of a

parallelogram. The appellant was the owner of the land

measuring 68 acres. The entire area of the village was

divided into six classes of use places.

130. We may notice they appear to be similar to the

zones contemplated under the DCR in the instant cases.

There were restrictions in regard to use, the number

of dwellings and the height, inter alia. Appellant’s

land fell under U-2, U-3 and U-6. The Ordinance came


63   544 US 528, 161 L.Ed.2d 876
64   272 US 365 (1926)
                                                                  186
to be challenged on the ground that it deprived the

appellant of its right to liberty and property without

due process of law as also equal protection of the law

under     the    Fourteenth     Amendment    to   the     U.S.

Constitution.        Certain   provisions   of    the   State

Constitution were also relied upon.

131. Though     in   the context   of the   validity of   the

restrictions under the Zoning Ordinance, we notice the

prescience of mind with which the Court approached the

matter and refused to apply constitutional safeguards:


        “Building zone laws are of modern origin. They
        began in this country about 25 years ago. Until
        recent years, urban life was comparatively
        simple; but, with the great increase and
        concentration of population, problems have
        developed, and constantly are developing,
        which require, and will continue to require,
        additional restrictions in respect of the use
        and occupation of private lands in urban
        communities.    Regulations,     the    wisdom,
        necessity, and validity of which, as applied
        to existing conditions, are so apparent that
        they are now uniformly sustained, a century
        ago, or even half a century ago, probably would
        have been rejected as arbitrary and oppressive.
        Such regulations are sustained, under the
        complex conditions of our day, for reasons
        analogous to those which justify traffic
        regulations, which, before the advent of
        automobiles and rapid transit street railways,
        would have been condemned as fatally arbitrary
        and unreasonable.”

                                                          187
132. In the recent judgment relating to land use in the

United States reported in Coy A. Koontz v. St. Johns

River Water Management District65, the Court, speaking

through the majority Judgment (5:4), had the following

facts before it. The petitioner therein decided to

develop a 3.7 acre section of his property and he

applied for certain permits required in this regard.

To mitigate the environmental effects of his proposal,

the petitioner offered to foreclose any possible future

development of the approximately 11 acres southern

section of his land by deeding to the district a

conservation easement on that portion of his property.

The District, however wanted the petitioner to reduce

the     size   of   development   to   1   acre   and   deed   the

conservation easement to the remaining extent of 13.9

acres. The District wanted the petitioner to make

improvement to District owned wet lands, several miles

away. The District hinted all that it would consider

alternative wherein monetary equivalent was proposed.




65   133 S.Ct. 2586 (2013)
                                                               188
It is in these facts that the majority view was inter

alia as follows: -

     “II A [1,2] We have said in a variety of
     contexts that “the government may not deny a
     benefit to a person because he exercises a
     constitutional    right.” Regan   v.   Taxation
     With Representation of Wash., 461 U.S. 540,
     545, 103 S.Ct. 1997, 76 L.Ed.2d 129 (1983). See
     also, e.g., Rumsfeld v. Forum for Academic and
     Institutional Rights, Inc., 547 U.S. 47, 59–
     60,   126   S.Ct.   1297,   164   L.Ed.2d   156
     (2006); Rutan v. Republican Party of Ill., 497
     U.S. 62, 78, 110 S.Ct. 2729, 111 L.Ed.2d 52
     (1990).”


        xxxx              xxxx              xxxx


     “A second reality of the permitting process is
     that many proposed land uses threaten to impose
     costs on the public that dedications of
     property can offset. Where a building proposal
     would    substantially     increase     traffic
     congestion, for example, officials might
     condition permit approval on the owner's
     agreement to deed over the land needed to widen
     a public road.”


        xxxx              xxxx              xxxx


     “(3) …Under Nollan and Dolan the government
     may choose whether and how a permit applicant
     is required to mitigate the impacts of a
     proposed development, but it may not leverage
     its legitimate interest in mitigation to pursue
     governmental ends that lack an essential nexus
     and rough proportionality to those impacts.”


                                                   189
         xxxx                xxxx               xxxx


     “(7) …Extortionate demands for property in the
     land-use permitting context run afoul of the
     Takings Clause not because they take property
     but because they impermissibly burden the right
     not to have property taken without just
     compensation. As in other unconstitutional
     conditions cases in which someone refuses to
     cede a constitutional right in the face of
     coercive pressure, the impermissible denial of
     a governmental benefit is a constitutionally
     cognizable injury.”


         xxxx                xxxx               xxxx


     “(13) …We agree with respondent that, so long
     as a permitting authority offers the landowner
     at   least   one    alternative   that   would
     satisfy Nollan and Dolan, the landowner has
     not been subjected to an unconstitutional
     condition.”


133. It is noteworthy to begin with that in India there

is no provision similar to the Takings clause in the

5th amendment to the US constitution. It is in fact true

that Article 31(2) did provide that a person could not

be deprived of his property except after payment of

compensation. Article 31 stands deleted by the Forty-

Fourth   Amendment.   In   Article   300A,   what   has   been

inserted by the same amendment is only the first limb


                                                          190
of Article 31, viz., no person shall be deprived of his

property save by authority of law. The ambit of this

Article has been discussed in the decision in K.T.

Plantations (supra).

134. Even under the Takings clause, we may only notice

Nollan-Dolan (supra) and as interpreted by the majority

in Koontz (supra) it is open to the government to

consider how the permit applicant must mitigate the

impacts of a proposed development and what is required

to make State action legitimate is that the conditions

imposed   must   bear   an   essential   nexus   and   a   rough

proportionality to the impacts perceived.


ENTRY 42 OF LIST III OF THE SEVENTH SCHEDULE


135. Is the impugned Rule/Regulation, a case where it

would be said that Entry 42 in List III to the Seventh

Schedule applies? In other words, is there acquisition

of land and is it a case of exercise of eminent domain

by the state? Is it a case where the impugned provisions

are more relatable to the exercise of police power?

Does the impugned provision constitute deprivation of

property within the meaning of Article 300A? Since we

                                                            191
have held that the impugned provision in the case of

the rule is law, would not the Rule be a law which

provides for deprivation of property, and therefore,

there    is    no     violation   involved      at    all.   Does     the

impugned Rule bring about deprivation and for which

compensation must be paid, failing which it cannot but

perish by placing it side by side with Article 300A?
136. We have noticed that right from 1975 onwards with

the promulgation of DCR along with a master plan, and

subsequently, in the year 2008, with the enactment of

the     regulations,        and   still,       what    is    more,     in

supersession of the Regulations by the Rules of 2019,

the Law Giver has put in place the requirement of making

available 10 per cent of land excluding roads for the

purpose of communal and recreational purposes, when the

layout exceeds 10000 square meters.

137. To the question, which we posed, viz., whether what

is    involved      is   acquisition    of     the    property   or    an

exercise of the power of eminent domain, we are of the

view that stipulating the conditions that a person who

seeks to develop his property in a sprawling and ever-

growing       urban      metropolis    which    is     sought    to    be

                                                                      192
regulated by a law relating to a town planning cannot

be viewed as acquisition of land within the meaning of

Entry 42 in List III. Acquisition of land involves, no

doubt, compulsory divesting of the rights of a person

in his property.

138. We must bear in mind that while right to hold and

enjoy property was a Fundamental Right under Article

19(1)(f), w.e.f. 1978 it ceased to be a Fundamental

Right.    Equally,    Article   31,   which   was   also     a

Fundamental Right in regard to property, including the

right to compensation as provided under Article 31(2)

stood deleted. Article 300A was inserted resurrecting

only Article 31(1). The right to property has been

described by this Court as a Statutory Right; a human

right    and   also   a   constitutional   right.   We   must

therefore proceed on the basis that a person would

continue to have despite the Forty-Fourth Amendment, a

statutory right, a human right and a constitutional

right to property.

139. An acquisition is a compulsory vesting of the

property of a person with the state. It is traceable

undoubtedly to the power of eminent domain assured to

                                                           193
every sovereign. It can undoubtedly be exercised only

for     securing       public   interest       as     contrasted    with

promotion of private interest (See K.T. Plantation

(supra)66).

140. K.T. Plantations (supra) was a case which involved

the validity of a law which provided for compulsory

acquisition          under      the        State     enactment.      The

understanding of this Court in K.T. Plantations (supra)

was that a person cannot be deprived of his property

merely by executive fiat without any specific legal

authority or without support of law made by a competent

Legislature (See paragraph-168).                   We must notice here

that     law   for     the   scope    of    Article    300A   has   been

explained by this Court in Bishambhar Dayal Chandra

Mohan and others v. State of Uttar Pradesh and others67

(paragraph-41) as follows:


        “41. There still remains the question whether
        the seizure of wheat amounts to deprivation of
        property without the authority of law. Article
        300-A provides that no person shall be deprived
        of his property save by authority of law. The
        State Government cannot while taking recourse
        to the executive power of the State under
        Article 162, deprive a person of his property.
66   (2011) 9 SCC 1
67   (1982) 1 SCC 39
                                                                    194
Such power can be exercised only by authority
of law and not by a mere executive fiat or
order. Article 162, as is clear from the
opening words, is subject to other provisions
of   the   Constitution.   It is,    therefore,
necessarily subject to Article 300-A. The word
“law” in the context of Article 300-A must mean
an Act of Parliament or of a State legislature,
a rule, or a statutory order, having the force
of law, that is positive or State made law.
The decisions in Wazir Chand v. State of
H.P. [AIR 1954 SC 415: (1955) 1 SCR 408 : 1954
SCJ 600 : 1954 Cri LJ 1029] and Bishan
Das v. State of Punjab [AIR 1961 SC 1570 :
(1962) 2 SCR 69 : (1963) 1 SCJ 405] are an
authority for the proposition that an illegal
seizure amounts to deprivation of property
without the authority of law. In Wazir Chand
case [AIR 1954 SC 415 : (1955) 1 SCR 408 : 1954
SCJ 600 : 1954 Cri LJ 1029] the police in India
seized goods in possession of the petitioner
in India at the instance of the police of the
State of Jammu & Kashmir. The seizure was
admittedly not under the authority of law,
inasmuch as it was not under the orders of any
Magistrate; nor was it under Sections 51, 96,
98 and 165 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1898, since no report of any offence committed
by the petitioner was made to the police in
India, and the Indian police were not
authorised to make any investigation. In those
circumstances, the Court held that the seizure
was not with the authority of law and amounted
to an infringement of the fundamental right
under Article 31(1). The view was reaffirmed
in Bishan Das case [AIR 1961 SC 1570 : (1962)
2 SCR 69 : (1963) 1 SCJ 405].”




                                              195
141. What this Court in K.T. Plantations (supra) meant

was to distinguish ‘law’ as a legislative measure as

distinct from mere Executive fiat.

142. The intention of Parliament was to do away with

the Fundamental Right to acquire, hold and dispose of

property (See paragraph-179). Deprivation of property

must take place for public             purpose primarily          (See

paragraph-180).      Public      purpose     must   be    given     an

expansive   meaning       (See   paragraph-181).         Payment    of

compensation   is    a    constitutional      requirement     under

Article   30(1)(A)       and   under   the   second      proviso    to

Article 31(A)(1) unlike Article 300A. After the Forty-

Fourth Amendment, the constitutional obligation to pay

compensation to a person deprived of his property is

dependent on the Statute. (See para 183). We may refer

to the following observations in paragraph 188:

     “188. We find no apparent conflict with the
     words used in List III Entry 42 so as to infer
     that the payment of compensation is inbuilt or
     inherent either in the words “acquisition and
     requisitioning” under List III Entry 42. Right
     to claim compensation, therefore, cannot be
     read into the legislative List III Entry 42.”




                                                                   196
143. This would mean that the argument of the parties,

based on the impugned provisions being violative of

Article 254 of the Constitution, is untenable. We may

equally notice paragraph-189:


     “189. Requirement of public purpose, for
     deprivation of a person of his property under
     Article 300-A, is a precondition, but no
     compensation or nil compensation or its
     illusiveness has to be justified by the State
     on judicially justiciable standards. Measures
     designed to achieve greater social justice, may
     call for lesser compensation and such a
     limitation by itself will not make legislation
     invalid or unconstitutional or confiscatory.
     In other words, the right to claim compensation
     or the obligation to pay, though not expressly
     included in Article 300-A, it can be inferred
     in that article and it is for the State to
     justify its stand on justifiable grounds which
     may depend upon the legislative policy, object
     and purpose of the statute and host of other
     factors.”


144. We may also recapture paragraphs-191 and 192:

     “191.    The    legislation    providing    for
     deprivation of property under Article 300-A
     must be “just, fair and reasonable” as
     understood in terms of Articles 14, 19(1)(g),
     26(b), 301, etc. Thus in each case, courts will
     have to examine the scheme of the impugned Act,
     its object, purpose as also the question
     whether payment of nil compensation or nominal
     compensation would make the impugned law
     unjust, unfair or unreasonable in terms of
     other provisions of the Constitution as
     indicated above.”
                                                     197
       “192. At this stage, we may clarify that there
       is a difference between “no” compensation and
       “nil” compensation. A law seeking to acquire
       private property for public purpose cannot say
       that “no compensation shall be paid”. However,
       there   could    be   a   law    awarding   “nil”
       compensation    in   cases    where   the   State
       undertakes   to    discharge    the   liabilities
       charged on the property under acquisition and
       onus is on the Government to establish validity
       of such law. In the latter case, the Court in
       exercise of judicial review will test such a
       law keeping in mind the above parameters.”


145. A perusal of the paragraphs, which we have adverted

to, would reveal that, while in paragraph-189, it is

made to appear that no compensation or nil compensation

or its illusiveness has to be justified on judicially

justifiable standards, in paragraph-192, it is held

that   a   law    providing     for     acquisition    of    private

property    for    public      purpose    cannot     say    that    no

compensation      could   be    paid.    At   this    juncture,     we

consider it apposite to refer to paragraph-141:

       “141. Eminent domain is distinguishable alike
       from the police power, by which restriction are
       imposed on private property in the public
       interest e.g. in connection with health,
       sanitation, zoning regulation, urban planning
       and so on from the power of taxation, by which
       the owner of private property is compelled to
       contribute a portion of it for the public

                                                                   198
       purposes and from the war power, involving the
       destruction of private property in the course
       of military operations. The police power
       fetters rights of property while eminent domain
       takes them away. Power of taxation does not
       necessarily involve a taking of specific
       property for public purposes, though analogous
       to eminent domain as regards the purposes to
       which the contribution of the taxpayer is to
       be   applied.   Further, there    are   several
       significant differences between regulatory
       exercises of the police powers and eminent
       domain of deprivation of property. Regulation
       does not acquire or appropriate the property
       for the State, which appropriation does and
       regulation    is    imposed    severally    and
       individually, while expropriation applies to
       an individual or a group of owners of
       properties.”


146. What is of interest to this Court in these cases

is   the   observation   that   eminent   domain    is   to    be

contrasted with police power, where restrictions are

put in public     interest, in     connection with zoning

regulations, urban planning, inter alia, by which the

owner of a private property is compelled to contribute

a portion of it for public purpose. No doubt, it is

also    held   that   Regulation   does    not     acquire     or

appropriate the property.

147. We must appreciate the issues before us in the

light of the said exposition.


                                                              199
148. The impugned provision does not represent in our

view, a case of compulsory acquisition of land. A case

of compulsory acquisition would be without there being

any volition or consent of a person. The State purports

to divest his rights in property and vest the rights

with the State. The impugned provision does not appear

to   us   to   be   a   case   of   such   acquisition   as    is

contemplated in a law which is made with reference to

Entry 42 in List III. In this context, we must also

deal with the case based on Section 20 of the Act.

Section 20 deals with contents of detailed development

plan. Section 20 (d) reads as follows and it provides,

inter alia, the contents:

      “Section 20(d). The acquisition by purchase,
      exchange or otherwise of any land or other
      immovable property within the area included in
      the detailed development plan whether required
      immediately or not.”


149. From a perusal of the said provisions, what it

contemplated, can be summed-up as follows. A detailed

development plan can propose or provide to purchase or

exchange any land or immovable property. The land may

be required immediately or it may be not so immediately


                                                              200
required. What is important is apart from purchase and

exchange, the property may be ‘acquired otherwise’. We

are not concerned with a challenge to Section 20. As

Section 20 stands acquisition by way of a gift cannot

be said to be incongruous merely by reference to the

two other expressly articulated modes of transfer of

title, viz., purchase and exchange. Undoubtedly, a gift

is a transfer of property without there being any

valuable consideration. It is an act of volition of the

owner. In other words, if a plan does provide that

right   in    land   or    other    immovable     property    may    be

acquired in terms of a gift which may be executed, it

may not involve straining the plain language, and also

involve      pouring      meaning    into   the    width      of    the

expression     ‘otherwise’      just   as   much    as   it    avoids

placing a narrow connotation on a word of wide import.

150. The decision in Pandit Chetram Vashishta (supra)

was a decision, which turned on the absence of any

power under which the open space or park was to stand

vested in a corporation or to stand transferred to it.

In fact, this Court found that the effect of the

reservation was that the donor ceased to be the legal

                                                                    201
owner of the land in dispute. He held the land for the

benefit of society or the public in general. The donor

became essentially a trustee preventing alienation of

his right. The court however drew a distinction between

the owner being transformed into the trustee and being

prevented from transferring his rights and the local

body being vested with the rights of the owner. As far

as   the   impugned   provisions   in   these   cases   are

concerned, the DCR not only obliges setting apart a

certain percentage (10 per cent) for the communal and

recreational purposes in respect of very large projects

but also a transfer, is to be made of the property so

set apart by the owner. We will delve upon the impact

of this decision at a later point of time in a different

context. At the same time, we must also bear in mind,

the Judgment of this Court in Yogendra Pal and others

(supra). In Yogendra Pal and others, we have already

noticed the facts. What was involved there was the

violation of Section 192(1)(c) of the Punjab Municipal

Act, 1911. The provision provided that the Municipal

Committee may prepare a building scheme, which may,

inter alia, provide that the amount of land in unbuilt

                                                        202
area shall be transferred to the committee for public

purposes including use as public streets by owners of

land either on payment of compensation or otherwise,

provided that the total amount so transferred shall not

exceed thirty-five per cent, and the amount transferred

without payment shall not exceed twenty-five per cent,

of any one owner’s land within such unbuilt area. What

appealed to this Court as the basis for transgression

of Article 14 has been adverted to by us and which is

contained in paragraphs-14 and 15 of the said Judgment.

It must be remembered that the principal plank of

attack against the provision in question was that it

fell foul of Article 19(1)(f) read with Article 31 of

the   Constitution   as   the   Articles   stood   then.   The

transfer effected in the said case, it may be noticed

was prior to 20.06.1979 on which date the Forty-Fourth

Amendment came into being. Therefore, the case was that

it amounted to acquisition of property. This Court

found merit in the contention that what was involved

was actually   acquisition and      the transfer was not

merely for a limited purpose. It was found that there

was no provision in the Act to suggest that despite

                                                           203
employment    of     the   land   for   public    purpose,    the

ownership and possession or occupation continued with

the landowner. The landowner was compelled to enjoy

rights only as a member of the public. The Court also

rejected the case of the transfer being only for a

limited purpose. A perusal of Section 192(1)(c) reveals

that the said provision is not comparable with the

provision impugned in the cases before us. Section

192(1)(c) of the Punjab Tenancy Act, 1911 was clearly

in the nature of acquisition. The rights of the person

were extinguished effectively. The provision vested

power or a discretion to acquire land either on payment

of compensation or otherwise. As already noticed, this

was done at a time when Article 19(1)(f) and Article

31 of the Constitution, both being Fundamental Rights,

continued to hold the field. No doubt, the decision is

rested ultimately on the impugned provision being found

to   be   contrary   to    Article   14.   What   is   pertinent,

however, is that, in the case of the Rule/Regulation

impugned, as we have already found, is not a case of

exercise of power of eminent domain, and it is not a

case of acquisition by means of compulsory exaction of

                                                             204
the property. What is involved in these cases, is a

different     factual   matrix.   A    person    or   a   group    of

persons, owning an extent of land, which is in excess

of   10,000    square   metres    in   a    fast-growing        urban

metropolis,     wish    to   develop       the   land.     It     is,

apparently, a commercial venture. They put-up, what is

called, special buildings or group development. This

involves making optimum use of the land by putting up

vertical constructions. In other words, ordinarily,

large number of persons would come to occupy the area

with a layout of more than 10,000 square metres. The

Law Giver has contemplated provision of roads within

the layout of roads. In fact, the roads are themselves

to become public. Interestingly, even in the challenge

made by the Writ Petitioner in Writ Petition No. 651

of 2015, viz., the petitioner has specifically limited

the challenge to the regulation to the requirement of

gifting the area comprised in the land for communal and

recreational purposes. The Regulations, as did the

Rules, provide for the roads to become public and

become open to the members of the public. A gift, in

this regard, is not ironically objected to.

                                                                  205
151. We    have    noticed    from    the   pleadings    that     the

appellants and the petitioner substantially do not

challenge the setting apart of land for the purpose of

communal or recreational purpose. The objections appear

to    be   as     follows.    The    word   ‘communal’     must    be

contextually interpreted to confine the benefit of

reservation for the occupants of the buildings and it

must not be made available to the members of the public.

In the case of Vasanth Apartments, they object to the

land set apart under the gift deed, being used to cater

to the members of the public in general, by converting

it into a public road. In fact, it must be remembered

that in the case of Vasanth Apartments, as rightly

pointed out by Shri Jayant Muth Raj, learned Senior

Counsel, the gift was not executed by the members of

the   Association.      The    property     was   gifted    by    the

developer as a condition for developing the land. The

developer, in other words, who put together the project

or developed the project, is the person who would have

a right to have the property revested. He accepts the

gift. It is obvious that having been a party to the

gift it may not lie in his mouth to impeach the same.

                                                                  206
[See in this regard the Judgment of this Court in

Narayanrao Jagobaji (supra)]. It is not as if the

members of the Vasanth Apartment Owners Association

claim to have an assignment of the right over the land

which is gifted from the original owner. Therefore, as

far as the members of the Vasanth Apartment Owners

Association   are   concerned,   on   the   factual   basis

available, it may not lie in their mouth, noticing two

other features as well, to contend that the Court must

invalidate the Rule. The gift was executed in the year

1994. The Writ Petition is filed almost 12 years after.

Secondly, the first Writ Petition, filed by the members

of the Vasanth Apartment Owners Association, was by

drawing support from the gift deed. They wanted that

the property must be continued as recreational and OSR

area. A learned Single Judge allowed the writ petition.

Thereafter, there were two Writ Appeals filed, one by

persons who claimed that the area was being used as a

public road, and another, by the Corporation of Chennai

and the CMDA. There was an interim Order passed by the

Division Bench. It is thereafter, that the second Writ

Petition is filed by them challenging the Rule. While,

                                                       207
it is true that mere passage of time will not make an

unconstitutional provision valid, the delay, with which

a prevailing Statute is impugned, becomes a factor,

which the Court would not ignore. In this case, as if

such factors were not sufficient, we notice the further

development. The Rules came to be repealed by the

Regulations in the year 2008 and the Regulation stood

repealed in the year 2019 by Statutory Rules made in

the said year. The challenge to the Rule, on the basis

of Article 300A and, indeed, Article 14 as well by

Association of Vasanth Apartment Owners Association

must fail, as it cannot even be their case that their

right in property was deprived. The appellants never

had any proprietary right in the property to allege

deprivation of the same. Even if the Rule is found bad,

there can be no question of voiding the gift at the

appellant’s instance.

152. In the case of M/s. Keyaram Hotels Pvt. Ltd., their

complaints, apart from those dealing with legality of

the Rule on other grounds, which we had noticed and

discussed, remain the following.


                                                    208
      Before we go to the other complaints, we have

already noticed, in paragraph 10 of the Writ Petition,

the   appellant/petitioner   (M/s.   Keyaram   Hotels   Pvt.

Ltd.) has expressed its willingness for stipulating

open space as required for communal and recreation use

of the occupiers and lawful uses of the building and

it was specifically averred that it would satisfy the

public interest. It is specifically undertaken that

they will keep 10 per cent of the area as open space

for communal and recreational purpose. However, they

have raised the complaint that further, apart from the

direction to execute the gift, the condition, imposed

to provide exclusive frontage for the said open space

into the main road, is unsustainable in law.      It is the

complaint that the attempt to the third respondent is

to gain entry into the property of the petitioner to

make use of the open space reserved, detrimental to the

rights of the property owner.

153. The matter may be viewed in the following manner.

In the facts in Pandit Chetram Vashishta (supra), it

was held that the position of the developer, would be

that of a trustee. It was so held in the absence of a

                                                        209
statutory   mandate.   Now,   in   this   case,   there   is   a

statutory mandate to execute a gift deed. The question

would arise as to what would be the nature of the rights

of the donee, viz., the local authority. Would the

donee become an absolute owner? Can the local authority

transfer the land? Can the local authority build on the

OSR area? The answer to all these questions is only in

the negative. Unlike the donee, in the case of a gift,

the local authority cannot in anyway acquire the right

as the absolute owner. Just as in the case of Pandit

Chetram Vashishta (supra), where the developer would

be a trustee, we would think that the Rule, if is to

be upheld, in the conspectus of the law and bearing in

mind the object, the transfer by way of a gift to the

donee will be only for the purpose of ensuring that the

object of the law is attained, i.e., the property is

maintained as OSR. The local authority, under the gift

deed, would be a mere trustee. As trustee, it will be

the obligation of the local authority to ensure that

all such lands, set apart under the impugned Rules/

Regulations, are effectively maintained as such. In




                                                           210
this regard, in the Open Space Act, 1906, a U.K. Law,

Section 3 reads as follows:


     “3 Transfer to local authority of spaces held
     by trustees for purposes of public recreation.

     (1) Where any land is held by trustees (not
     being trustees elected or appointed under any
     local or private Act of Parliament) upon trust
     for the purposes of public recreation, the
     trustees may, in pursuance of a special
     resolution, transfer the land to any local
     authority by a free gift absolutely or for a
     limited term, and, if the local authority
     accept the gift, they shall hold the land on
     the trusts and subject to the conditions on and
     subject to which the trustees held the same,
     or on such other trusts and subject to such
     other conditions (so that the land be
     appropriated   to   the  purposes   of   public
     recreation) as may be agreed on between the
     trustees and the local authority with the
     approval of the Charity Commission.

     (2) Subject to the obligation of the land so
     transferred being used for the purposes of
     public recreation, the local authority may hold
     the land as and for the purposes of an open
     space under this Act.”


154. The very goal of town planning requires nothing

less. Once the goal of executing the gift and the

results it produces in law, are appreciated in the

above manner, we find that the apprehensions and the

contentions   of   the   appellant/petitioner   lose   their


                                                        211
sheen. We are unable to accept, in the context of the

Act of the Rules/ Regulations, that, in such a large

project, when the layout is more than 10,000 square

metres, executing a gift                 deed, which would ensure

compliance, would fall foul of the requirement of

either Article 14 or Article 300A. The developer/owner,

remained      only    a    trustee       even    without      a    gift.      The

provision       for       setting       apart     10        per     cent,      is

invulnerable. The area will even without a gift remain

out of bounds for the project proponent/owner. The OSR,

being    an     inviolable            requirement,      the        additional

requirement, meant and understood as a                            measure to

ensure compliance and prevent misuse and or disuse,

must not be          understood as deprivation. As already

discussed, the gift will not convert the Local Body

into    an    absolute         owner.    Instead,      in    place       of   the

original owner, continuing as a trustee, the Local

Authority becomes the trustee. The purpose and the

nature of the obligation will remain and haunt both the

Local    Body        as        also     the     original          owner.      The

Rule/Regulation           at    any    rate    also,   is     a    law     which

sanctions       deprivation             even     assuming          there       is

                                                                              212
deprivation. However, we are of the view that, in

substance, the Rule/Regulation cannot be understood as

deprivation under Article 300A.

155. We have indicated earlier that this Court has

recognised Right to Property as a Constitutional Right

on account of insertion of Article 300A. In the context

of the Principle of Unconstitutional Condition, as

recognised in the United States, could it be said that

the impugned Rule/Regulation presents a case of an

unconstitutional condition? While, as already found by

us, the impugned provisions, do not make out a case of

acquisition as it is not a compulsory divesting of

title and a gift is executed on the basis that the

project proponent/owner volunteers to execute the gift

deed and no doubt, in view of the Rule, the execution

of the gift deed, finally, brings in the element of

consent and takes the transaction out of the Doctrine

of   Eminent      Domain,      which    requires     compulsory

acquisition de hors the consent of the person having

interest in the property, but then the question arises,

whether   the   impugned    provisions    involves    a   person

having    a   Constitutional    Right   under   Article    300A,

                                                            213
having to sacrifice his Right as a condition to obtain

the development permit. This Court has declared the

right of a person to construct a building, is a right

under the law, viz., the Statute, which governs the

same. In the said sense, it becomes a Statutory Right.

The right is hedged in necessarily with limitations and

conditions. Now, superimposing the mandate of Article

300A, the question arises, whether the instant case

involves employment of an unconstitutional condition.

In Ahmedabad St. Xavier's College Society v. State of

Gujarat68, Justice Mathew while dealing with the content

of the right guaranteed under Article 30(1) in regard

to      recognition     or   affiliation   held   inter   alia    as

follows:

         “158. The   doctrine    of    “unconstitutional
         condition” means any stipulation imposed upon
         the grant of a governmental privilege which in
         effect requires the recipient of the privilege
         to relinquish some constitutional right. This
         doctrine takes for granted that ‘the petitioner
         has no right to be a policeman’ but it
         emphasizes the right he is conceded to possess
         by reason of an explicit provision of the
         Constitution, namely, his right “to talk
         politics”. The major requirement of the
         doctrine is that the person complaining of the
         condition   must   demonstrate    that  it   is
         unreasonable in the special sense that it takes

68   (1974) 1 SCC 717

                                                                 214
         away or abridges the exercise of a right
         protected by an explicit provision of the
         Constitution (see William W. Van Alstyne: “The
         Demise of the Right-Privilege Distinction in
         Constitutional Law” [81 Harv Law Rev 1439]).”


156. In a case involving exercise of power to terminate

service        of    a    permanent   employee   of   public/semi

government undertaking or statutory corporations only

by giving a month’s notice, this Court inter alia held

in Delhi Transport Corpn. v. D.T.C. Mazdoor Congress69

as follows:


         283. The problem also could be broached from
         the angle whether the State can impose
         unconstitutional conditions as part of the
         contract or statute or rule etc. In (1959-60)
         73 Harvard Law Review, in the Note under the
         caption ‘Unconstitutional Condition’ at pages
         1595-96 it is postulated that the State is
         devoid of power to impose unconstitutional
         conditions in the contract that the power to
         withhold largesse has been asserted by the
         State in four areas i.e. (1) regulating the
         right to engage in certain activities; (2)
         administration    of    government    welfare
         programme; (3) government employment; and (4)
         procurement of contracts. It was further
         adumberated at pages 1602-03 thus:
            “The sovereign's constitutional authority to
            choose those with whom it will contract for
            goods and services is in effect a power to
            withhold the benefits to be derived from
            economic dealings with the government. As

69   (1991) Suppl.1 SCC 600

                                                             215
 government activity in the economic sphere
 increases, the contracting power enables the
 government   to    control    many    hitherto
 unregulated    activities   of     contracting
 parties through the imposition of conditions.
 Thus, regarding the government as a private
 entrepreneur      threatens     to      impair
 constitutional   rights….   The    government,
 unlike a private individual, is limited in
 its ability to contract by the Constitution.
 The federal contracting power is based upon
 the Constitution's authorisation of these
 acts ‘necessary and proper’ to the carrying
 out of the functions which it allocates to
 the   national    government.    Unless    the
 objectives sought by terms and conditions in
 government contracts requiring the surrender
 of rights are constitutionally authorised,
 the conditions must fall as ultra vires
 exercise of power.”

Again at page 1603, it is further emphasised
thus:

 “When conditions limit the economic benefits
 to be derived from dealings with the
 government to those who forego the exercise
 of constitutional rights, the exclusion of
 those    retaining    their    rights    from
 participation in the enjoyment of these
 benefits may be violative of the prohibition,
 implicit in the due process clause of Fifth
 Amendment   and   explicit   in   the   equal
 protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
 against unreasonable discrimination in the
 governmental bestow of advantages. Finally,
 disabling those exercising certain rights
 from participating in the advantages to be
 derived from contractual relations with the
 government may be a form of penalty lacking
 in due process. To avoid invalidation for any
 of the above reasons, it must be shown that
 the conditions imposed are necessary to
 secure the legitimate objectives of the
                                              216
       contract, ensure its effective use, or
       protect society from the potential harm which
       may result from the contractual relationship
       between the government and the individual.”


157. The     Doctrine       of     Unconstitutional            Condition

involves a person having to give-up a Constitutional

Right as a condition to obtain a benefit he is otherwise

entitled to. While it is in the context of Article

300A, to be understood that the Right to Property

cannot be deprived except in accordance with law and

even as held in K.T. Plantations (supra) that such law

must be fair and reasonable, once it is found that

there is such a law, then, even if there is deprivation,

it cannot be found that Article 300A is violated. We

have   already    found,      in       fact,   that      there    is    no

deprivation      in     the       context        of     the      impugned

Rules/Regulations.       In      the    conspectus       of    the     DCR/

Regulation,    the    nature       of    the     right    to     property

available under the Constitution as expounded in K.T.

Plantations      (supra),        the    seemingly        never    ending

imperative    needs      of       an     urban        metropolis,      the

indisputable need to set apart 10% for the recreational

purpose and the discussion we have already made with

                                                                       217
regard to the effect of the gift and the purpose it

serves, we are of the view that the rule/regulation may

not give rise to any room for invoking the doctrine of

unconstitutional condition. We must continue to remain

alive to the vital dimension which we have already

indicated   that    the   impugned     provision    essentially

pertains to what can be described as purely commercial

projects though it is linked with property rights. In

other words,     particularly from the stand point of

invoking the doctrine of unconstitutional condition,

the   distinction    between     the   person     putting   up    a

residential building and the proponent of a complex,

commercial project in a metropolis cannot be lost sight

of. At any rate, we cannot in the conspectus of the

Rule/Regulation and the salutary purpose, it seeks to

achieve   hold   the    requirement     as   an   “unreasonable

condition in a special sense”. [See para 155]

158. The case of the CMDA is that in view of the benefits

which accrue, it could be a case of nil compensation.

The   distinction      between   nil   compensation     and      no

compensation has been laid down to be that in the former

it is permissible on the basis that it becomes liable

                                                              218
to     discharge    the     liability         in        regard     to    the

person/property. In the context of the rule/regulation,

we would not think that there would be violation of

Article 300A on the basis of it being a deprivation of

property     involving      breach       of     a       mandate    to   pay

compensation.      It must be at once noticed that what is

involved is the need to execute a gift. By its very

nature, in the case of a gift, there cannot be any

valuable consideration. If compensation is to be paid

then it would cease to be a gift. Having regard to the

discussion we have made regarding the validity of the

rule/regulation         otherwise,    we      do        not   think     that

execution of the gift which we have found transformed

the donee not as the absolute owner but as trustee

would require having regard to the salutary purpose,

the need to pay compensation. It may not be a case where

the respondent discharges any liability as such. It is

another matter that the project proponent stands to

make    a   considerable        profit     as       a    result    of    the

permission granted.

159. In case there is no requirement to execute a gift

of   OSR    area   in   terms    of   Pandit        Chetram       Vashishta

                                                                        219
(supra), the project proponent/owner would remain in

the position of a trustee. As a trustee in law is the

legal owner, and therefore this being the position in

law, he may not be disabled from transferring the

property   in   any   manner.   However,   as   he   is   under

obligation as a trustee to maintain the property as

OSR, he cannot defeat the obligation by transferring

the same and it can lead to abuse. No doubt, he would

be prohibited from raising any construction over the

OSR area. One of the bundle of rights of an owner,

however, which would survive after the owner steps into

the shoes of a trustee, could be said to be the power

to exclude ‘others’ from the OSR area. The attribute

of ownership of property consisting of the power to

exclude others may continue with the project proponent

in the absence of a gift. Now, interestingly, this

again would depend upon the interpretation of the words

‘communal and recreational purpose’. This is for the

reason that if the OSR area can be accessed by members

of the general public as contended by the respondents,

then, the project proponent cannot possibly have the

right of an owner to exclude them. Equally, even with

                                                           220
the requirement to maintain the OSR area in the absence

of the demand for a gift, it could be said that the

sole project of proponent could have the right to

remain in possession. Another dimension may be noticed.

What would happen if the OSR area is acquired in the

exercise of the power of eminent domain for the public

purpose? Who would be entitled to the compensation, if

a   gift   is   made    in   terms      of     the     impugned

Rule/Regulation?   We   would   think        that    since   the

interpretation we are placing is that the gift under

the Rule/Regulation is intended only to ensure due

compliance with the requirement of the OSR area being

effected and to prevent misuse by the owner, as between

the original owner and the local authority, it would

be the original owner, who may be entitled to the

compensation.

160. The time, therefore, is ripe to deal with the

meaning of the words open space reservation of land for

communal and recreational purposes.

161. Group development falls under Rule 19(b)(2) of

the DCR. Group development is defined as accommodation

for residential or commercial or combination of such

                                                             221
activities housed in two or more blocks of buildings

in a particular site irrespective of whether these

structures are interconnected or not. Rule 19(b)(ii)

proceeded to provide for the minimum width of the

public road on which the site abuts. The vehicular

access way including passage if any within the site was

to have a minimum width. It also referred to set back

requirements. Parking standards were prescribed [See

19(b)(ii)(v)]. It is, thereafter, that the open space

requirement was provided by declaring that reservation

of land for communal and recreational purposes shall

be as follows and it must at this juncture be noticed

that there is an explanation, which reads as follows:

-

     “Explanation: -

     (1) For the purposes of this rules, existing
     development defined as one “Where the extent
     of ground area covered by structures already
     existing (prior to application) in 25% and
     above of the total site area”.
     (2) In case of existing development where it
     is difficult to leave the 10% area as open
     space for communal / recreational purposes, the
     Authority reserves the right to collect the
     market value of equivalent land in lieu of the
     land to be reserved. However, if on a future
     date the developer wants to demolish the
     existing structures and raise new structures
                                                   222
     on the site in question, the communal and
     recreational space shall be reserved, as per
     rule.

     (3) The land so reserved shall be free from
     any construction by the owner or promoter or
     developer.   The   land   for   communal   and
     recreational purposes shall be restricted at
     ground level in a shape and location to be
     specified   by   the    Chennai   Metropolitan
     Development Authority.”


162. In the case of Writ Petition No. 691 of 2015

wherein   the   regulation   of   the   year   2008   has   been

challenged as we have noticed there is no challenge to

Regulation 29(6)(a), which, inter alia, provides how

the land reserved is to be restricted at the ground

level. It is true that there is a challenge to Annexure

XX, which we have extracted in paragraph 118 of the

judgment.   But the absence of challenge to Regulation

29(6) is fatal.      We must proceed on the basis that

there is no challenge to the terms of the explanation

to Rule 19(b)(II)(vi) which in Clause (iii) provides

that the land so reserved shall be free from any

construction by the owner, promoter or developer, and

what is more important, the manner in which the land

is to be provided for communal and recreational purpose


                                                            223
is that it is to be restricted at ground level in a

shape and location to be specified by the Chennai

Metropolitan Development Authority. This provision has

not been expressly challenged. In the absence of a

challenge, what is contained in a rule and also the

like   provision   in   the    regulation,    the   resultant

position would be the exact shape and the location is

to be determined by the CMDA.

163. The problem, however, still persists in the form

of the meaning of the words ‘communal and recreational

purpose’ in the case of a site having an extent between

3,000 square metres to 10,000 square metres. Rule 19

(b)(vi) to 19(2)(b)(vi) contemplate that the space so

required is to be transferred to the authority or local

body designated by the authority free of cost through

a deed. It is further provided that the local body may

provide   the   residents     association    or   flat   owners

association for maintaining such reserved space as

park. Significantly, in the case of a site having an

extent between 3,000 to 10,000 square metres, the Rule

declares that public access to the area as earmarked

will not be insisted upon. When it comes to the extent

                                                           224
of the site with which this Court is concerned, viz,

where the extent of site exceeds 10,000 square metres,

the requirement in the Rule, viz., is common to 10 per

cent of area excluding road had to be transferred by a

gift is insisted upon. It is provided that it is

obligatory to transfer the reserved 10 percent of the

site area. No charges can be accepted in the case of

new development or re-developments. It will be noticed

that in the case of Rule 19(b)(II)(vi) in the case of

site having extent between 3,000 square                 metres to

10,000 square metres, the CMDA or the local body may

permit     the   residents    association        or   flat   owners

association      for   maintaining   the    reserved     space    as

parks. In the case of site having extent of above 10,000

square metres under the column ‘reservation’, it is not

provided that the flat owners or residents association

may   be   permitted     to   maintain     the    reserved    park.

However, it will be noticed that Rule 19(b)(II)(vii)

reads as follows: -


      “(vii) The Authority reserves the right to
      enforce the maintenance of such reserved lands
      by the owner to the satisfaction of the
      Authority or order the owner to transfer the
      land to the Authority or any local body
                                                                 225
designated by it, free of cost, through a deed,
the Authority as the case may be, reserve the
right to decide on entrusting the maintenance
work to institution/individual on merits of the
case.

Explanations under DCR 19 (b):-

(1) For Economically Weaker Section group
housing, the set back shall be 4.5 metre from
the site boundary and the spacing between the
blocks shall be a minimum of 3 metres. The
vehicular access way within the site shall have
a   minimum   width  of   4.5   metres.   Other
stipulations shall be as in rule 19(b) (II)
above. But, this shall be applied only in sites
duly declared for Economically Weaker Section
housing by Government.

(2) The corridor within the buildings shall be
accordance with the standard prescribed in
Annexure XII-A.

(3) In matter of standards other than specified
in these rules, the stipulation and the
specifications   laid   down   by   the   Indian
Standards Institutions shall apply.
(4)   Structures   incidental    to   the   main
activities such as water-closet, bath and pump
room shall not be construed as individual
blocks for the purpose of these rules. But,
these structures shall not be permitted in the
prescribed set back spaces.

III (a) Notwithstanding anything mentioned
above layouts for group housing, Economically
Weaker Section Housing, sites and services
projects, slum improvement schemes may be
approved, subject to such conditions as may be
stipulated by the Authority.”




                                               226
164. The impact of Rule 19 (b)(II)(vii) is as follows.

It empowers the CMDA to enforce the maintenance of the

reserved areas by the owner to the satisfaction of the

authority or to order the owner to transfer the land

to the authority or any local body free of cost through

a deed. The authority also reserves the right to decide

on      entrusting       the     maintenance       work      to

institutions/individual on the merits of the case. It

is   noteworthy   that   there   is   no   challenge   to   Rule

19(b)(II)(vii). It would appear that when a gift is

executed then the duty of maintaining can be given to

institution/individual on the merits of the case. This

would mean that even the project proponent or other

individual/individuals who may have an interest as in

the case of Vasant Apartments Owners Association, the

said Association could be asked to maintain the open

area.

165. The impression we gather on reading the contents

of reservation to be made in respect of site having an

extent between 3,000 to 10,000 square metres is that

the reserved area is to be maintained as a park. When

it comes to the site having more than 10,000 square

                                                            227
meters, the provision that public access for area shall

not be insisted upon is not to be found. This means

that when it comes to the layout which in the wisdom

and the policy of the Rule Maker, which as we have

seen, has been made after the process undergone under

the Act, as we have noticed, and apparently, after

hearing objections, if any, and with the approval of

the government that, were a large chunk of land be

developed     for   group    development,       as     defined,   and

certain percentage, which in these cases is 10 per cent

or 1/10th of the total layout excluding roads is to be

set apart as the OSR area. The word park is not in any

way inconsistent with recreational purpose. It does not

require much imagination to conclude that in an urban

area and with a site being in excess of 10,000 square

metres   (nearly    two     and   a   half    acres)    where   group

development takes place, there would be a large number

of   people   who   would     occupy    the    said     area.   Group

development can be substantially conflated with flats

and apartments comprised in two or more blocks or

buildings as required to satisfy the requirement of

group development under Rule 19(b)(II). A large number

                                                                  228
of    people    would    occupy       the    said    land.      This     is

understandable having regard to the size of the layout

and    the     definition      of     group       building.      Planned

development, particularly, when it is informed by deep

vision about the future does call for an expansive

approach. Congestion in urban areas is                      a foreseen

certainty. The requirement for lung space and that too

the need for the same being available in the close

vicinity of the area of residents is not difficult to

conjure. Planned development has a considerable deal

to do with the quality of the lives of the residents

in an urban area, as can be perceived from provision

made for aspects relating to parking, setback, roads,

all of which do apparently make inroads into absolute

right of property of developer. They are indispensable

necessities from the standpoint of the town planner as

much as it is for the residents in an urban area. While

we    are    conscious    of    the    fact       that   the    DCR     did

contemplate open space zones which must be understood

as    parks,   etc.,     as    one    of    the    zones,      the    idea,

apparently,      was     to    avoid       concentration        and    the

consequent need to undertake avoidable travel for the

                                                                       229
residents of an area to the site of the open space

zone. An open space requirement is stipulated world

over based on very formidable considerations. The fact

that no construction is to be put up is the very

corollary of and is in consonance with an ‘open’ space

requirement. Still further, parks inevitably would have

trees. Trees ensures a steady supply of much needed

oxygen. Providing other recreational measures, which

are at the heart of quality of a person’s life, in

keeping with modern demands, are critical elements of

a legitimate public interest.

166. Having made these observations, we pass on to

consider   further       aspects.   In    the    case   of   Vasanth

Apartments, i.e., Civil Appeal Nos. 1890-1891 of 2010,

the developer undoubtedly           executed a gift deed. A

contention   is    taken    on   behalf     of   the    respondents

including Shri Jayant MuthRaj that the donor has gifted

the land for roads and parks from the perusal of the

gift deed. It would appear that the donor has indeed

gifted the land in question and provided that the donee

may peacefully and quietly enjoy the said land ‘of

roads/parks’      free    from   all     encumbrances.       At   this

                                                                  230
juncture, we bear in mind the actual terms of the gift

deed executed in the case of Association of Vasanth

Apartments, which we have adverted to in paragraph-47

of this Judgment.

167. The Division Bench has considered the report of

the Advocate       Commissioner also to find            that there

existed a kachha pathway and that is a road which is

being used by thousands in terms of the gift deed which

came into effect. It is their contention that even if

it is found by this Court that in terms of the OSR

requirement of 10 percent of the land, it can only be

used   as   open    space      for   communal   and   recreational

purpose     and    not   for    a    road,   this   Court   may   not

interfere.

168. Firstly, we must consider the ambit of the words

communal and recreational purpose and find whether it

could take in a public road for being used by members

of the public generally. Equally, we must consider

whether the word communal is capable of extending the

benefit of the open space requirement to the members

of the general public or whether it must be confined

to the beneficiaries of the group development. In other

                                                                  231
words, if the word communal is interpreted as the

community     of    the   beneficiaries        of      the   group

development, then it must be understood as meaning that

members of the general public cannot be permitted to

partake of the benefits flowing from the open space

reservation. For instance, if adjoining the site and

as indicated in the explanation in a shape and location

determined by the CMDA, a park is constructed. By use

of the word communal and interpreting it to mean a

community which is larger than the mere beneficiaries

of the group development as such, then the benefit of

the open space may become available to the general

public   in   the   nearby     area.   This    would    have    the

advantage of facilitating the members of the public

avoiding    travelling    to    the    areas   where    there    is

recreation or open space, as for instance, under the

zoning requirements. Undoubtedly, the absence of any

construction which is indispensable to make it an open

space area and which is insisted upon also will provide

a large chunk of space for all the people in the area.

Making available the facilities on the basis that when

development    is   permitted,    it    brings   in    its   train

                                                                232
certain responsibilities for the project proponents

which can be appreciated as legitimate State interests,

is    one   way    of       approaching    the   issue.     It    must     be

understood in all these cases that setting apart of 10

percent of the area is actually as such not objected

to. This means all parties are agreed that the law

providing for setting apart of 10 percent of the total

area excluding roads in the case of group development

in excess of 10,000 square metres is legitimate and

valid, unless we find favour with the arguments that

it    is    otherwise         constitutionally      infirm.       We     have

already     found       that      the   provision   does    not        offend

Article 14 on the ground that it represents a species

of class legislation. We are unable to also find that

the provision is manifestly arbitrary. If in other

words, there is no other basis to find the impugned

rule vulnerable, we can safely proceed to hold that the

requirement of OSR is not unjustified. We have noticed

the    stand      of        the   two   appellants    and        the     writ

petitioners also in this regard. We find that it is

their stand that they are prepared to maintain the 10

percent     area       as    OSR.   What   is    objected   is     to     the

                                                                         233
execution of the gift deed and allowing the property

rights    to    change   hands.    This    is   apart   from   the

objection to the chosen site being made accessible to

the general public.

169. We have noticed that in Pandit Chetram Vashishta

(supra), this Court has held that in the absence of

valid provision under which the gift in the said case

could    be    supported,   the    mere    resolution    was   not

sufficient. The position still was found to be that the

original owner would continue to be a trustee. He

cannot transfer or change the nature of the property.

In fact, in the decision reported in Virender Gaur

(supra), this Court discountenanced conversion of what

was an OSR area into land on which construction though

for what was projected as a laudable object was carried

out. We are of the view that bearing in mind the

laudable object the law relating to town planning which

has been the very basis for our reasoning otherwise,

we must clarify that what the Rule and the Regulation

mandatorily      stipulated       was     the   dedication     and

maintenance of 10 percent of the area for communal and

recreation purposes area only. There is inviolable duty

                                                               234
on the part of all including the local body and the

CMDA to ensure that an area which is set apart or

purported     to    be    set     apart   in     terms    of     the      OSR

requirement under the Rule/Regulation in question is

used only for communal and recreational purpose. We

notice in, this regard, the complaint of Ms. V. Mohana,

learned Senior Counsel, as indeed the other counsel

that only lip service is being paid to the projected

sublime object of maintaining                 OSR. This        cannot be

permitted.

170. Unrelentingly persevering is the aspect relating

to the contours of the word communal in the setting of

the Rules/regulations and Act. Rules do shed some light

in Rule 19 (b)(II)(vi). In regard to plots having a

size of 3,000 square metres to 10,000 square metres,

the   law   giver     has   provided      that    it     shall      not    be

necessary to provide access to the public. When it

comes to the impugned Rule, viz., Rule 19 (b)(II)(vi)

providing for plot size in excess of 10,000 square

metres, it is apparent that the access of the members

of    the   general      public    to   the    OSR   area      is   to     be

permitted. This result is inevitable having regard to

                                                                          235
the fact that unlike the immediate predecessors, viz.,

plot size having 3,000 to 10,000 square metres wherein

it has been indicated that public access shall not be

insisted upon such a relaxation is conspicuous by its

absence. The wisdom and the value judgement, which

underlies permitting or contemplating public access to

the OSR area, can be understood only in terms of the

difference   in   the   size.   Once   wisdom   and    a   value

judgment are beyond the pale of judicial review and

scrutiny, and further, it is found that the project

developer and also the beneficiaries of the group

development are duty-bound for maintaining an OSR area,

then the matter goes to the legitimacy of the public

or State interest. The consequences of executing the

gift deed and the underlying purpose have been adverted

to by us already. In fact, apart from it being a

legitimate    public      purpose,      even     the       rough

proportionality concept in Nollan (supra) would appear

to be satisfied.

171. In the case of M/s. Keyaram Hotels Pvt. Ltd., the

terms of the gift deed provide that the gift is made

so that the donee may at all times, peacefully and

                                                            236
quietly, possess and enjoy the said portion only as

open space, free from all encumbrances, without any

lawful eviction, interruption, claim whatsoever from

the donor. A perusal of Rule 19 (b)(II)(vi) in relation

to the extent of size between 3,000 and 10,000 square

metres    contemplates    that     the   reserved   area   is    to

maintained as a park.

172. We notice that under Rule 61 of the Andhra Pradesh

Group     Development    Scheme,    sub-Rule    (7)   reads      as

follows:


        “61(7) Minimum of 10% of site area shall be
        earmarked for organised pen space and be
        utilised as greenery and shall be provided over
        and above the mandatory setbacks at suitable
        location accessible to entire community to the
        satisfaction of the competent authority. Such
        open space shall be open to sky and shall not
        be over cellar floors.

                                     (Emphasis supplied)


173. We may also notice sub-Rule 61(14):

        “(14) All roads and open spaces mentioned in
        this Rule shall be handed over to local body
        at free of cost through a registered gift deed
        before issue of occupancy certificate. The
        society / association may in turn enter into
        agreement   with  the   local  authority   for
        utilizing, managing and maintaining the roads
        and open spaces. In case of any violation of

                                                                237
     encroachment,   the  local   authority   shall
     summarily demolish the encroachments and
     resume back the roads and open spaces and keep
     it under its custody.”


174. Under Regulation 23 of the DCR for Greater Bombay,

1991, open space is to be provided, in fact, for any

layout, starting from 1001 square meters to 2500 square

meters, wherein 15 per cent is to be kept as open space.

For an area of 2501 square meters to 10000 square

meters, 20 per cent has to be kept as open space. In

the case of residential and commercial layout for area

above 10000 square meters, ‘25’ per cent has to be

maintained as open space. There are certain exceptions.

The ownership, no doubt, is to vest by a deed of

conveyance in all the property owners on account of

whose holdings, the recreational space is assigned. It

also appears to provide that the remaining area of

recreational open space or playground (that is after

excluding     structures   providing   for   pavilions,

gymnasium, clubhouses, etc.), is to be made accessible

to all members as a place of recreation, garden or

playground.


                                                    238
175. The words ‘communal and recreational purpose’, for

which the OSR area is to be used, in the case of the

impugned Rule/Regulation, appears to indicate that the

word ‘communal’ is to be given a meaning, which would

be in keeping with the object of law, enable members

of the public as well, to gain access when the layout

is more than 10000 square meters. In this regard even

in Pt. Chetram   (supra) we recapture the following:


     “6. Reserving any site for any street, open
     space, park, school etc. in a layout plan is
     normally a public purpose as it is inherent in
     such reservation that it shall be used by the
     public in general. The effect of such
     reservation is that the owner ceases to be a
     legal owner of the land in dispute and he holds
     the land for the benefit of the society or the
     public in general. It may result in creating
     an obligation in nature of trust and may
     preclude the owner from transferring or selling
     his interest in it. It may be true as held by
     the High Court that the interest which is left
     in the owner is a residuary interest which may
     be nothing more than a right to hold this land
     in trust for the specific purpose specified by
     the coloniser in the sanctioned layout plan.
     But the question is, does it entitle the
     Corporation to claim that the land so specified
     should be transferred to the authority free of
     cost. That is not made out from any provision
     in the Act or on any principle of law. …”




                                                   239
176. Rule 61(7) of the Andhra Pradesh Rules in Andhra

Pradesh, which we have referred to, is unambiguous that

the area used as ‘greenery’ shall be accessible to the

‘entire community’. It is to be secured by means of the

gift contemplated in Rule 61(14). While, we cannot be

sitting in Judgment over the said Rule, we would think

that the purport of the impugned Rule/Regulation must

be understood as persuading the Court to not place a

narrow interpretation.

177. In this regard we find reassurance in the view

taken by the courts in the United States even in the

presence of the taking clause under the 5th Amendment

to   the   U.S.   Constitution.   In   an   Article   titled

“Techniques for Preserving Open Spaces” published in

75 Harv. L. Rev. 1622, we find the following:

     “Required Dedication and Reservation. — A
     municipality can require the developer of a new
     subdivision to provide such facilities as
     roads, streets, sewers, and playgrounds as a
     condition to plat approval. In the leading case
     of Ayres v. City Council a requirement that the
     subdivider dedicate land for road and street
     purposes and leave undeveloped an accompanying
     area for trees and shrubbery was approved on
     the theory that since the new subdivision
     created the need for and would specially
     benefit from the improvements, the developer
     and ultimate purchasers rather than the entire

                                                        240
     community should bear the cost of providing
     them. In a case involving required reservation
     of land for a public park the argument that
     this would be an unconstitutional taking of
     land was rejected on the theory that the
     subdivider would be compensated by the share
     of the benefits to the whole community which
     accrued to his particular development. The
     Pennsylvania Supreme Court has taken a contrary
     view, however. And where the need for a
     particular improvement is a general one, not
     specifically attributable to the subdivider's
     activity, the entire municipality must bear the
     cost.”


We would therefore come to the conclusion that the

word ‘communal’ must be understood as where the layout

exceeds   10000   sq.meters   entitling    members     of    the

general public also to avail the benefit of the OSR

area. Once, the word ‘communal’ is so understood it

further fortifies us in our conclusion that there would

be no infraction of Article 300A or Article 14 as

understanding     the   execution   of   the   gift   deed    as

obligating the donee only to act as a trustee to ensure

the fulfilment of the sublime goal of the law and since

the owner/developer would not have a right to exclude

others or to claim exclusive right to possession which

would be incongruous to recognising the right of the

members of the general public to access to the OSR

                                                             241
area.    This   discussion   furnishes     our    rationale   to

uphold the Rule / Regulation and to hold that it can

withstand the challenge based on Article 300A on the

basis    that   properly     appreciated    the    “so   called

compelled gift” would be valid. Even proceeding on the

basis that a challenge to Rule 19(b) would imply a

challenge to the Explanation as well, on the reasoning

which has appealed to us, namely, about the nature of

the right under the Gift Deed as also finding that the

word ‘communal’ is intended to reach the benefit of

the OSR area to the members of the public as well,

there would be no merit in the contention.

THE UPSHOT OF THE ABOVE DISCUSSION:


178. The upshot of the above discussion may be summed-

up as follows:


I.     Rule 19 of the DCR, which is impugned, is statutory

       in nature;

II.    Rule 19 is not ultra vires the Act;

III.   The impugned Regulation is not ultra vires the Act;



                                                              242
IV.    Neither       the    impugned   Rule    nor    the    Regulation

       violates Article 14 of the Constitution of India;

V.     The    impugned      Rule/Regulation       does      not   violate

       Article 300A of the Constitution of India;

VI.    The areas covered by the OSR cannot be diverted

       for any other purpose. The respondents are duty-

       bound to ensure that the area set apart as OSR is

       stringently utilised only for the purpose in the

       Rule/Regulation. We direct that no area meant for

       OSR shall be utilised as dumping yards or any other

       purpose other than as OSR;

VII.    As far as Civil Appeal Nos. 1890-1891 of 2010 are

       concerned, we are of the view that in view of the

       fact that there appears to have been a kachha road,

       even at the time of the gift executed as early as

       in February, 1994 and it was being used as a road

       by    large    numbers     of   members   of   the     public    to

       reverse the position on the ground, may produce a

       great deal of injustice, which we would avoid by

       resorting      to    the   principle      enunciated       in   the

       decision        of     this     Court     referred         to    in


                                                                       243
        Taherakhatoon (D) By LRs. v. Salambin Mohammad70.

        However, if the property gifted is in excess of

        the area used for the road, we direct that the

        excess land shall be used for the purpose of OSR

        only.    We   also     direct     that    the   Authority    may

        consider making available the maintenance of the

        said     area        to     the      appellants,        namely,

        Association of Vasanth Apartments Owners, if they

        are    prepared   to      maintain   it    in   terms   of   the

        observations contained in this judgment.

179. Civil Appeals 1890-1891 of 2010 are disposed of.

The other Appeals and the Writ Petition will stand

dismissed subject to the observations/directions we

have made earlier. No order as to costs.



                                   ………………………………………………………………………J.
                                   [K.M. JOSEPH]



                                   ………………………………………………………………………J.
                                   [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA]


NEW DELHI;
DATED: February 13, 2023.


70
     (1999) 2 SCC 635
                                                                     244












