









Sanjay Singh vs State Of U.P. And Another on 6 February, 2023



Share Link
Mobile View



Premium Members
Advanced Search
Case Removal








 Cites 2 docs 
      
      
The Indian Penal Code
Section 482 in The Code Of Criminal Procedure,   1973

















Warning on Translation





Take notes as you read a judgment using our Virtual Legal Assistant and get email alerts whenever a new judgment matches your query (Query Alert Service). Try out our Premium Member services -- Free for one month.

Allahabad High Court
Sanjay Singh vs State Of U.P. And Another on 6 February, 2023Bench: Samit Gopal





HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD
 
 

?Court No. - 69
 

 
Case :- APPLICATION U/S 482 No. - 3359 of 2023
 

 
Applicant :- Sanjay Singh
 
Opposite Party :- State of U.P. and Another
 
Counsel for Applicant :- Abha Gupta
 
Counsel for Opposite Party :- G.A.
 

 
Hon'ble Samit Gopal,J.

List revised. 

Heard Ms. Abha Gupta, learned counsel for the applicant, Sri Raj Kumar Gupta, learned counsel for the State and perused the record. 

This application under Section 482 Cr.P.C. has been filed by the applicant-Sanjay Singh with the prayer to quash the Charge Sheet No.02A of 2022 dated 8.10.2022 and cognizance order dated 24.11.2022 in Case No.1684 of 2022, State Vs. Maniraj Singh arising out of Case Crime No.10 of 2022 u/s 420 IPC, 66C I.T. Act, P.S. Ciber Crime Allahabad, District Allahabad pending before A.C.J.M-2, Allahabad and further to stay the further proceedings of aforesaid case during the pendency of the present application before this Hon'ble Court.

At the very outset, learned counsel for the applicant states that the purpose of the applicant would suffice if an order is passed directing the trial court to decide the bail application of the applicant, as expeditiously as possible. He further states that although the prayer has been made for quashing of the charge sheet and cognizance order of the case but he does not press the same. He further states that the applicant shall raise all the objections at the stage of trial before the trial court.

Learned counsel for the State has no objection of aforesaid arguments of learned counsel for the applicant.

In view of the above, the prayer for quashing of charge sheet and cognizance order is dismissed as not pressed.

However, in view of the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case and looking to the limited prayer of learned counsel for the applicant, it is directed that if the accused-applicant surrenders before the trial court and applies for bail within two weeks from today, the same shall be considered and decided expeditiously in accordance with law.

Till the aforesaid period, no coercive action shall be taken against the applicant in the aforesaid case. 

It is clarified that if the accused-applicant do not appear before the court concerned by the said date, the court concerned shall proceed against him in accordance with law. 

The present application is disposed of.

            (Samit Gopal, J.) 
 
Order Date :- 6.2.2023
 
Gaurav
 



 




 

 
 
    
      
  
 











