









M/S N.N. Global Mercantile ... vs M/S Indo Unique Flame Ltd. on 25 April, 2023



Share Link
Mobile View



Premium Members
Advanced Search
Case Removal








 Cites 191 docs 
      
        - [View All]
      
      
Section 11 in The Indian Stamp Act, 1899
The Indian Stamp Act, 1899
Section 35 in The Indian Stamp Act, 1899
Section 33 in The Indian Stamp Act, 1899
The Arbitration Act,   1940
 Citedby 0 docs
      
      
Ringfeder Power Transmission ... vs Rajesh Mootha on 11 July, 2023
Ringfeder Power Transmission ... vs Rajesh Mootha on 11 July, 2023
Mr. Saripalli Prasad Rao vs Mr. Anand Mallipudi on 18 July, 2023
M/S.Image Infotainment Limited vs M/S.Labour India Public School ... on 2 February, 2022
Idbi Bank Ltd. vs Power Finance Coporation Ltd. And ... on 12 May, 2023

















Warning on Translation





Take notes as you read a judgment using our Virtual Legal Assistant and get email alerts whenever a new judgment matches your query (Query Alert Service). Try out our Premium Member services -- Free for one month.

Supreme Court of India
M/S N.N. Global Mercantile ... vs M/S Indo Unique Flame Ltd. on 25 April, 2023Author: K.M. Joseph
Bench: Hon'Ble The Justice, Hon'Ble Ms. Banerjee, M.R. Shah
                                                                                                                                REPORTABLE
                                             IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
                                                   CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION
                                      CIVIL APPEAL NO(S). 3802-3803 OF 2020


          M/S. N.N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE
          PRIVATE LIMITED                                                                                                     … APPELLANT(S)

                                                                                   VERSUS

          M/S. INDO UNIQUE FLAME
          LTD. & ORS.                                                                                                        … RESPONDENT(S)


                                                                       JUDGMENT

          K.M. JOSEPH, J.


                                                                                    Index
          A.          THE REFERENCE............................................................................................................................... 2
          B.          A BIRD’S OVERVIEW OF THE FACTS IN N.N. GLOBAL ...................................................................... 3
          C. THE FINDINGS IN N.N. GLOBAL IN REGARD TO THE QUESTION UNDER THE CAPTION ‘VALIDITY
          OF AN ARBITRATION AGREEMENT IN AN UNSTAMPED AGREEMENT’................................................... 5
          D.          SUBMISSION OF THE PARTIES ....................................................................................................... 15
          E.          ANALYSIS ....................................................................................................................................... 29
          F.          THE ACT ......................................................................................................................................... 30
          G.          WHAT LED TO THE INSERTION OF SECTION 11(6A)? .................................................................... 32
          H.          THE SCHEME OF THE STAMP ACT ................................................................................................. 53
          I.          HINDUSTAN STEEL LIMITED ANALYSED ........................................................................................ 59
          J. THE INDIAN CONTRACT ACT, 1872 - A SURVEY; DISSECTION OF GARWARE, VIDYA DROLIA AND
          N.N. GLOBAL ......................................................................................................................................... 64
Signature Not Verified

          K.
Digitally signed by
                      THE STAMP ACT – WHETHER A PROCEDURAL LAW?.................................................................... 88
Nidhi Ahuja
Date: 2023.04.25
          L.
18:29:45 IST
Reason:               SECTION 7 OF THE ACT – ITS IMPACT ........................................................................................... 97
          M.             THE ALTERNATIVE PERSPECTIVE ............................................................................................. 105
          N.          THE AMICUS CURIE SPRINGS A SURPRISE ................................................................................... 111

                                                                                          1
O.   SECTIONS 33 AND 35 OF THE STAMP ACT; THE COURT OR THE ARBITRATOR TO ACT? ............ 124
P.   ARBITRATION AGREEMENT, A DISTINCT AGREEMENT AND ITS IMPACT? ................................. 132
Q.   CONCLUSIONS ............................................................................................................................. 137




1.       We have perused the draft judgments prepared by

our esteemed brothers Ajay Rastogi, J. and Hrishikesh

Roy, J. With profound respect to our learned Brothers,

we are unable to, however, concur with them in their

reasoning and conclusions save as will be made clear.

Hence, the following judgment.


A.       THE REFERENCE

2.       A Bench of three learned Judges disposed of Civil

Appeal             Nos.             3802-3803                     of         2020            by         Judgment                    dated

11.01.2021. The Judgment is reported in N.N. Global

Mercantile Private Limited v. Indo Unique Flame Limited

and others1. What is of relevance for the purpose of

the Reference is the following:

           “56. We are of the considered view that the
           finding in SMS Tea Estates [SMS Tea Estates (P)
           Ltd. v. Chandmari Tea Co. (P) Ltd., (2011) 14
           SCC   66   :   (2012)   4   SCC    (Civ)   777]
           and Garware [Garware         Wall         Ropes
           Ltd. v. Coastal Marine Constructions & Engg.
           Ltd., (2019) 9 SCC 209 : (2019) 4 SCC (Civ)

1
     (2021) 4 SCC 379
                                                                      2
     324] that the non-payment of stamp duty on the
     commercial contract would invalidate even the
     arbitration agreement, and render it non-
     existent in law, and unenforceable, is not the
     correct position in law.

     57. In view of the finding in paras 146 and
     147 of the judgment in Vidya Drolia [Vidya
     Drolia v. Durga Trading Corpn., (2021) 2 SCC 1
     : (2021) 1 SCC (Civ) 549] by a coordinate
     Bench,   which   has   affirmed the    judgment
     in Garware [Garware Wall Ropes Ltd. v. Coastal
     Marine Constructions & Engg. Ltd., (2019) 9 SCC
     209 : (2019) 4 SCC (Civ) 324] , the aforesaid
     issue is required to be authoritatively settled
     by a Constitution Bench of this Court.

     58. We consider it appropriate to refer the
     following issue, to be authoritatively settled
     by a Constitution Bench of five Judges of this
     Court:
     “Whether the statutory bar contained in Section
     35 of the Stamp Act, 1899 applicable to
     instruments chargeable to stamp duty under
     Section 3 read with the Schedule to the Act,
     would also render the arbitration agreement
     contained in such an instrument, which is not
     chargeable to payment of stamp duty, as being
     non-existent,   unenforceable,    or   invalid,
     pending   payment   of  stamp   duty   on   the
     substantive contract/instrument?”



B.   A BIRD’S OVERVIEW OF THE FACTS IN N.N. GLOBAL

3.   The first respondent, who was awarded the Work

Order, entered into a sub-contract with the appellant.

                          3
Clause 10 of the Work Order, constituting the sub-

contract,    provided     for   an     Arbitration     Clause.    The

appellant had furnished a bank guarantee in terms of

Clause 9. The invocation of the said guarantee led to

a Suit by the appellant against the encashment of the

bank guarantee. The first respondent applied under

Section 8 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996

(hereinafter referred to as, ‘the Act’, for short)

seeking Reference. A Writ Petition was filed by the

first     respondent     challenging       the    Order     of     the

Commercial    Court      rejecting      the    Application       under

Section 8 of the Act. One of the contentions raised was

that the Arbitration Agreement became unenforceable as

the Work Order was unstamped. The High Court, however,

allowed     the   Writ    Petition       filed    by    the      first

respondent. The issue relevant to this                  Bench     was,

whether the Arbitration Agreement would be enforceable

and acted upon, even if the Work Order is unstamped and

unenforceable     under     the       Indian   Stamp    Act,     1899

(hereinafter referred to as, ‘the Stamp                   Act’, for

short).


                                  4
C. THE FINDINGS IN N.N. GLOBAL IN REGARD TO THE
QUESTION UNDER THE CAPTION ‘VALIDITY OF AN
ARBITRATION  AGREEMENT     IN   AN   UNSTAMPED
AGREEMENT’


4.   The Court found that an Arbitration Agreement is a

distinct and separate agreement, which is independent

from the substantive commercial contract in which it

is embedded. Under the Doctrine of Kompetenz–Kompetenz,

the Arbitral Tribunal had competence to rule on its own

jurisdiction, including objections with regard to the

existence,       validity    and   scope    of   the   Arbitration

Agreement. Section 16(1) of the Act was relied upon.

The Court made a copious reference to case law in

support of the Doctrine of Kompetenz-Kompetenz. Section

5    of    the     Act      contemplated     minimal     judicial

interference. The Court referred to the Maharashtra

Stamp     Act,    1958.     Section    34   of   the   said   Act,

essentially, is pari materia with Section 35 of the

Stamp Act, 1899 hereinafter referred to as the Stamp

Act. There are other provisions, which essentially

follow the same pattern as is contained in the latter

Act. The Court, thereafter, went on to refer to Item


                                   5
63 of Schedule I of the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958,

which dealt with ‘Works Contract’. It was found that

the Stamp Act is a fiscal measure. Thereafter, the

Court went on to discuss the Judgment of this Court

reported    in     SMS   Tea   Estates   Private     Limited   v.

Chandmari    Tea    Company    Private   Limited2.    The   Court

referred to the following part of the Judgment in SMS

Tea Estates (supra):

       “19. Having regard to Section 35 of the Stamp
       Act, unless the stamp duty and penalty due in
       respect of the instrument is paid, the court
       cannot act upon the instrument, which means
       that it cannot act upon the arbitration
       agreement also which is part of the instrument.
       Section 35 of the Stamp Act is distinct and
       different from Section 49 of the Registration
       Act in regard to an unregistered document.
       Section 35 of the Stamp Act, does not contain
       a proviso like Section 49 of the Registration
       Act enabling the instrument to be used to
       establish a collateral transaction.

                   xxx          xxx           xxx

       21. Therefore, when a lease deed or any other
       instrument is relied upon as contending the
       arbitration   agreement,  the   court  should
       consider at the outset, whether an objection
       in that behalf is raised or not, whether the
       document is properly stamped. If it comes to

2
    (2011) 14 SCC 66
                                6
       the conclusion that it is not properly stamped,
       it should be impounded and dealt with in the
       manner specified in Section 38 of the Stamp
       Act. The court cannot act upon such a document
       or the arbitration clause therein. But if the
       deficit duty and penalty is paid in the manner
       set out in Section 35 or Section 40 of the
       Stamp Act, the document can be acted upon or
       admitted in evidence.”


5.    The Court further went on to find that, at the time

SMS Tea Estates (supra) was decided, the law relating

to reference to Arbitration under Section 11 of the

Act, was expounded in the Constitution Bench decision

reported in SBP & Co. v. Patel Engineering Ltd. and

another3, among other cases. It was further found that

the law laid down was that in an Application under

Section 11(6) of the Act, the Court may determine

certain threshold issues, such as, whether the claim

was time-barred, or a stale claim; whether there was

accord and satisfaction, which would preclude the need

for reference to arbitration. Thereafter, the Court

refers to the amendment to Section 11 by the insertion

of Sub-Section (6A) in Section 11. The Court referred



3
    (2005) 8 SCC 618
                            7
to the Judgment in Duro Felguera, S.A. v. Gangavaram

Port Limited4, to conclude that what was to be gone

into was only whether an Arbitration Agreement existed

or not. The Court noted that the said position was

affirmed by a Bench of three learned Judges in Mayavati

Trading Private Limited v. Pradyuat Deb Burman5. Still

further, the Court went on to notice the Judgment

rendered by the Bench of two learned Judges in Garware

Wall Ropes Limited v. Coastal Marine Constructions &

Engineering Limited6 and referred to para 22 of the

said decision where this Court relied on Section 2 (h)

of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 (hereinafter referred

to as, ‘the Contract Act’, for short) and found that

an unstamped agreement to be unenforceable.

6.   In Garware (supra), the Bench of two learned Judges

took the view that the Arbitration Clause contained in

the sub-contract would not exist as a matter of law

until the sub-contract was duly stamped. It was further

found that Section 11(6A)      deals with existence   as



4
  (2017) 9 SCC 729
5
  (2019) 8 SCC 714
6
  (2019) 9 SCC 209
                           8
opposed to Section 8, and Section 45 of the Act [See

paragraph 29 of Garware (supra)]. The Bench of three

learned Judges in its judgment in N.N. Global (supra),

containing the Order of Reference to the Constitution

Bench, found      that an Arbitration Agreement is not

included in the Schedule as an instrument chargeable

to stamp duty. The Court referred to Item 12 of Schedule

I of the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958, in this regard.

Thereafter, the Court went on to find that the Work

Order was chargeable to payment of stamp duty. The

Court, however, found that           the non-payment or the

deficiency on the Work Order did not invalidate the

main   contract.    Section     34   of   the   Maharashtra       Act

corresponding to Section 35 of the Stamp Act did not

make the unstamped instrument, invalid, non-existent

or unenforceable in law. The Court found that the

Arbitration Agreement was a distinct and an independent

contract. On the Doctrine of Separability, it would not

be rendered invalid, unenforceable or non-existing,

even   if   the   substantive    contract,      in   which   it   is

contained, was inadmissible in evidence or could not




                                9
be acted upon, in view of it not being stamped. The

Bench in N.N. Global (supra) went on to hold as follows:

     “26. In our view, there is no legal impediment
     to the enforceability of the arbitration
     agreement, pending payment of stamp duty on the
     substantive contract. The adjudication of the
     rights and obligations under the work order or
     the substantive commercial contract would,
     however, not proceed before complying with the
     mandatory provisions of the Stamp Act.

     27. The Stamp Act is a fiscal enactment for
     payment of stamp duty to the State on certain
     classes of instruments specified in the Stamp
     Act. Section 40 of the Stamp Act, 1899 provides
     the procedure for instruments which have been
     impounded, and sub-section (1) of Section 42
     requires the instrument to be endorsed after
     it is duly stamped by the Collector concerned.
     Section 42(2) provides that after the document
     is duly stamped, it shall be admissible in
     evidence, and may be acted upon.

     28. In our view, the decision in SMS Tea
     Estates [SMS Tea Estates (P) Ltd. v. Chandmari
     Tea Co. (P) Ltd., (2011) 14 SCC 66 : (2012) 4
     SCC (Civ) 777] does not lay down the correct
     position in law on two issues i.e. : (i) that
     an arbitration agreement in an unstamped
     commercial contract cannot be acted upon, or
     is rendered unenforceable in law; and (ii) that
     an arbitration agreement would be invalid where
     the contract or instrument is voidable at the
     option of a party, such as under Section 19 of
     the Contract Act, 1872.

                          10
29. We   hold   that since    the  arbitration
agreement is an independent agreement between
the parties, and is not chargeable to payment
of stamp duty, the non-payment of stamp duty
on   the   commercial  contract,   would   not
invalidate the arbitration clause, or render
it unenforceable, since it has an independent
existence of its own. The view taken by the
Court on the issue of separability of the
arbitration clause on the registration of the
substantive contract, ought to have been
followed even with respect to the Stamp Act.
The   non-payment   of  stamp   duty  on   the
substantive contract would not invalidate even
the main contract. It is a deficiency which is
curable on the payment of the requisite stamp
duty.

30. The second issue in SMS Tea Estates [SMS
Tea Estates (P) Ltd. v. Chandmari Tea Co. (P)
Ltd., (2011) 14 SCC 66 : (2012) 4 SCC (Civ)
777] that a voidable contract would not be
arbitrable as it affects the validity of the
arbitration agreement, is in our view not the
correct position in law. The allegations made
by a party that the substantive contract has
been   obtained   by   coercion,   fraud,   or
misrepresentation has to be proved by leading
evidence on the issue. These issues can
certainly be adjudicated through arbitration.

31. We overrule the judgment in SMS Tea
Estates [SMS Tea Estates (P) Ltd. v. Chandmari
Tea Co. (P) Ltd., (2011) 14 SCC 66 : (2012) 4
SCC (Civ) 777] with respect to the aforesaid
two issues as not laying down the correct
position in law.”
                    11
7.   We may also notice paragraph-32 in N.N. Global

(supra):

     ”32.Garware [Garware          Wall        Ropes
     Ltd. v. Coastal Marine Constructions & Engg.
     Ltd., (2019) 9 SCC 209 : (2019) 4 SCC (Civ)
     324] judgment has followed the judgment in SMS
     Tea    Estates [SMS     Tea      Estates    (P)
     Ltd. v. Chandmari Tea Co. (P) Ltd., (2011) 14
     SCC 66 : (2012) 4 SCC (Civ) 777] . The counsel
     for the appellant has placed reliance on para
     22 of the judgment to contend that the
     arbitration clause would be non-existent in
     law, and unenforceable, till stamp duty is
     adjudicated and paid on the substantive
     contract. We hold that this finding is
     erroneous, and does not lay down the correct
     position in law. We have already held that an
     arbitration   agreement    is    distinct   and
     independent from the underlying substantive
     commercial contract. Once the arbitration
     agreement is held to have an independent
     existence, it can be acted upon, irrespective
     of the alleged invalidity of the commercial
     contract.”



8.   Thereafter, the Bench of three learned Judges in

N.N. Global (supra) noted that the Judgment in Garware

(supra) was cited with approval by a Bench of three

learned Judges in Vidya Drolia and others v. Durga


                          12
Trading Corporation7. The Court set out paragraphs 146

and    147    of    Vidya   Drolia    (supra)   and   doubted     the

correctness of the said view and found it appropriate

to    refer   the    findings   in    paragraphs-22    and   29   of

Garware (supra) as affirmed in paragraphs 146 & 147 of

Vidya Drolia (supra) to the Constitution Bench. We deem

it appropriate to now refer to the following paragraphs

in N.N. Global (supra):

       “35. The next issue which arises is as to which
       authority   would   exercise   the   power   of
       impounding the instrument under Section 33 read
       with Section 34 of the Maharashtra Stamp Act,
       in a case where the substantive contract
       contains an arbitration agreement.

       36. In an arbitration agreement, the disputes
       may be referred to arbitration by three modes.
       36.1. The first mode is where the appointment
       of the arbitrator takes place by the parties
       consensually in accordance with the terms of
       the arbitration agreement, or by a designated
       arbitral institution, without the intervention
       of   the   court.   In   such   a   case,   the
       arbitrator/tribunal is obligated by Section 33
       of the Stamp Act, 1899 (or the applicable State
       Act) to impound the instrument, and direct the
       parties to pay the requisite stamp duty (and
       penalty, if any), and obtain an endorsement
       from the Collector concerned. This would be

7
     (2021) 2 SCC 1
                                 13
evident from the provisions of Section 34 of
the Stamp Act which provides that “any person
having by law or consent of parties authority
to receive evidence” is mandated by law to
impound the instrument, and direct the parties
to pay the requisite stamp duty.

36.2. The second mode of appointment is where
the parties fail to make the appointment in
accordance with the arbitration agreement, and
an application is filed under Section 11 before
the Court to invoke the default power for
making the appointment. In such a case, the
High Court, or the Supreme Court, as the case
may be, while exercising jurisdiction under
Section 11, would impound the substantive
contract    which   is  either   unstamped   or
inadequately stamped, and direct the parties
to     cure     the    defect    before     the
arbitrator/tribunal can adjudicate upon the
contract.

36.3. The third mode is when an application is
filed under Section 8 before a judicial
authority   for    reference   of  disputes   to
arbitration, since the subject-matter of the
contract   is    covered   by   an   arbitration
agreement. In such a case, the judicial
authority   will     make   the   reference   to
arbitration. However, in the meanwhile, the
parties would be directed to have the
substantive contract stamped in accordance
with the provisions of the relevant Stamp Act,
so that the rights and obligations emanating
from   the    substantive    contract   can   be
adjudicated upon.”



                     14
D.    SUBMISSION OF THE PARTIES

9.    Shri Gagan Sanghi, learned Counsel, appeared on

behalf of the appellant (M/s N.N. Global Mercantile

Private    Limited).       Initially,    since    there      was    no

appearance for the first respondent, we appointed Shri

Gourab    Banerji,    learned       Senior   Counsel    as    Amicus

Curiae. We also heard Ms. Malavika Trivedi, learned

Senior Counsel, appearing by way of intervention. Shri

K Ramakanth Reddy, learned Senior Counsel appeared

thereafter   for     the    first    respondent   and     made     his

submissions.

10.   Shri   Gagan    Sanghi    would    take    us    through     the

provisions of the Stamp Act and the Act and contended

that Section 35 of the Stamp Act barred admission of a

not duly stamped instrument in evidence for any purpose

in Court. Furthermore, a Court could not act upon such

an instrument. Not even for a collateral purpose, ran

the argument. There is an absolute bar. An Arbitration

Agreement, even if contained in a Clause, in a Work

Order or in other commercial contract, cannot have a

separate existence as found in N.N. Global (supra). The
                                15
Doctrine of the Arbitration Agreement being distinct

and having a separate existence, has been erroneously

understood in the context of Sections 33 and 35 of the

Stamp Act. The Judgment in SMS Tea Estates (supra)

ought not to have been overruled. The Principle of

Stare Decisis could not have been overlooked. The

learned Counsel drew our attention to the fact that

several foreign countries have laws, which contain

provisions similar to Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp

Act. In fact, he would contend that there was no

occasion to make the reference as the main case stood

disposed   of.   He   would   submit   that   even   in   an

Application under Section 11 of the Act, the Court was

bound to observe the mandate of the law contained in

Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act. The law has been

correctly laid down in SMS Tea Estates (supra) and

Garware (supra) and it was also correctly upheld in

Vidya Drolia (supra). The amendment to Section 11 by

the insertion of sub-Section (6A), could not authorise

a Court to overlook the dictate of Sections 33 and 35

of the Stamp Act.


                              16
11. Smt. Malvika Trivedi, learned Senior Counsel,
projected the same complaint against the view taken in

N.N. Global (supra). She, in fact, drew our attention

to the impact of the view taken in N.N. Global (supra)

to the proceedings under Section 9 of the Act. It is

her case that the requirement to comply with Sections

33 and 35 of the Stamp Act, would not stand displaced,

even in an Application under Section 9 of the Act.

12. Shri Gourab Banerji, learned Amicus, contended
that actually, there were parts of Garware (supra),

Vidya Drolia (supra) and N.N. Global (supra), which did

lay down the law correctly. He began by pointing out

that the Bench in N.N. Global (supra) was not correct

in   proceeding   on   the   basis   that,   an   Arbitration

Agreement, was not required to be stamped. He drew our

attention to Article 5 of Schedule I of the Maharashtra

Stamp Act, 1958 in this regard. It is his submission

that the existence and/or validity of an Arbitration

Agreement is not affected by the provisions of the

Stamp Act. Non-payment of the stamp duty will not

invalidate the instrument. It is a curable defect. A

true reading of Section 11(6A) would establish that the
                             17
impounding       of    an    unstamped      or   deficiently       stamped

instrument, is not to be done by the Judge under Section

11 but by the Arbitrator appointed under Section 11.

Section    11(6A)       compels      the    Court       to    confine    its

examination to the question of the existence of the

Arbitration       Agreement.        In    view   of     the     fact   that,

neither Garware (supra) nor N.N. Global (supra) laid

down the law correctly, he requested that the reference

be reformulated as indicated later.

13.     Relying       upon   the    Judgment       of    this    Court     in

Hindustan Steel Ltd. v. Dilip Construction Company8, it

is contended that an unstamped document can be acted

upon,    after    payment      of    duty    and      penalty.     Being    a

curable defect, it could not be found that an unstamped

instrument did not exist in the eye of law. He drew our

attention to the Judgment of the Privy Council in

Lachmi Narayan Agarwalla and Others v. Braja Mohan

Singh (SINCE DECEASED)9, to contend that an unstamped

instrument, with penalty paid, became effective in law.

He further drew support from the following Judgments:


8
    (1969) 1 SCC 597
9
         51 Indian Appeals 332
                                     18
     i.    Joyman Bewa v. Easin Sarkar10;

     ii. Gulzari Lal Marwari v. Ram Gopal11

     iii. Purna Chandra Chakrabarty and others v. Kalipada

           Roy and another12.

14. The aforesaid case law, unerringly points to the
conclusion that failure to stamp a document, did not

affect the validity of the document. It merely rendered

the       document    inadmissible      in   evidence.   From   the

Judgment      of     the   Pakistan    Supreme   Court   in   United

Insurance Company of Pakistan Limited v. Hafiz Muhammad

Siddique13, the following words of Dorab Patel, J., are

enlisted before us:

          “It   would  be   against   all  cannons   of
          construction to enlarge the meaning of the
          words in Section 35 so as to render invalid
          instruments which fall within mischief of the
          section.”


15. The learned Amicus would point out that stamp duty
is levied with reference to the instrument and not the

transaction. The Stamp Act is a consolidating Act. It



10
   AIR 1926 Calcutta 877
11
   ILR 1937 1 Calcutta 257
12
   AIR 1942 Calcutta 386
13
   PLD 1978 SC 279
                                  19
is a fiscal law. Securing revenue was the aim. It cannot

be    used     to    clothe       a   litigant         with    an    arm   of

technicality. He drew our attention to Section 5 of the

Act interdicting judicial intervention. He pointed out

Section 8 of the Act, which, after the amendment in the

year 2015, permits disallowing of making a reference

to arbitration, only if the Court found prima facie

that no valid Arbitration Agreement existed. Section

8, he pointed out, did refer to ‘validity’. He took us

through the decision in SMS Tea Estates (supra), in the

context of the law laid down in SBP (supra), by the

Constitution Bench, the Report of the Law Commission

of     India    and        emphasised       the    need        for   minimal

interference         and    to    give     full   meaning       to   Section

11(6A), by ensuring minimal interference. He drew our

attention       to     the       discussion       by     the     high-level

Committee, which preceded the amendment in Section 11.

He commended for the Court’s acceptance, the view taken

by this Court in Duro Felguera14, wherein, Justice

Kurian Joseph, speaking for the Court inter alia, held

in the post Section 11(6A) scenario, as follows:


14
     (2017) 9 SCC 729
                                      20
       “59. The scope of the power under Section 11(6)
       of the 1996 Act was considerably wide in view
       of the decisions in SBP and Co. [SBP and
       Co. v. Patel Engg. Ltd., (2005) 8 SCC 618]
       and Boghara Polyfab [National Insurance Co.
       Ltd. v. Boghara Polyfab (P) Ltd., (2009) 1 SCC
       267 : (2009) 1 SCC (Civ) 117] . This position
       continued till the amendment brought about in
       2015. After the amendment, all that the courts
       need to see is whether an arbitration agreement
       exists—nothing    more,   nothing   less.   The
       legislative policy and purpose is essentially
       to minimise the Court's intervention at the
       stage of appointing the arbitrator and this
       intention as incorporated in Section 11(6-A)
       ought to be respected.”


16. The learned Amicus would point out that non-
stamping did not render the agreement null and void.

In law and in point of fact, an unstamped instrument

bears life. He would point out that Duro Felguera

(supra) was approved by a Bench of three learned Judges

in   Mayavati   Trading    (supra).   He    would   attack   the

finding in Garware (supra) that an unstamped instrument

was void as being incorrect. He would submit that what

is required in law, after the insertion of sub-Section

(6A)   is   clear   as    daylight.   The   existence   of    an

Arbitration Agreement, is all that should detain the

Judge in an application under Section 11. No doubt, he

would point out that there may be cases where the actual
                              21
situation,      which       occasioned       the    Judgment       in   Vidya

Drolia    (supra),         may   exist.      This   means       that    since

Section    5    of    the    Act    makes     certain      disputes       non-

arbitrable, it may detain a Judge, who is approached

under    Section      11,     to    dissuade       him   from      making    a

reference. There may arise occasions, which may leave

the   Judge     with       little    choice    but       to     decline    the

reference. An instance may be an agreement demonstrated

to be made by a minor or a person of unsound mind. Such

exceptional         cases    apart,    the    learned         Amicus    would

request the Court to draw comfort from the thought that

the Arbitrator is fully competent by virtue of the

Doctrine        of        Kompetenz-Kompetenz,             which        stands

enshrined in Section 16 of the Act, to deal with all

sorts    of    objections.          Having    regard       to    the    clear

legislative intent, discernible from the Report of the

Law Commission and the amendment to Section 11 of the

Act, which finds its echo in the change brought about

in Section 8 of the Act, by the same amendment, the

effort must be to facilitate an unhindered and smooth

passage       for    an     Application       seeking         reference     to

arbitration.         The    learned    Amicus       with      reference     to

                                      22
paragraph-18 of SBP (supra), submits that the Court in

Garware (supra) erred in holding that only if the

Arbitrator was appointed, without intervention of the

Court, Section 16 would have full play. It is pointed

out that the Judgment in SBP (supra) will not have

life, after the amendment in 2015. He would also point

out   that     the    Court   in    Garware       (supra)    erred   in

paragraph-19, when it suggested that the Court was only

giving effect to a mandatory enactment, which purported

to protect the public revenue. While it is correct, it

is pointed out that an agreement enforceable by law is

a   contract    and    Section      2(g)    of   the   Contract   Act,

provides that an agreement not enforceable by law, is

said to be void, non-stamping or inadequate stamping

would not make an instrument void. It is pointed out

that the suggestion that, an unstamped document did not

become   a     contract,      and    that    it    was,     therefore,

unenforceable in law was incorrect. He also would find

fault with the Court in Garware (supra), when it found

that an unstamped document would not ‘exist’ as a

matter of law. The solution suggested by the learned

Amicus is that an Arbitrator may be appointed and, to

                                    23
allow the Arbitral Tribunal to fulfil its duties under

the Stamp Act. In other words, it is pointed out, in

keeping with the purpose of Section 11(6A) and the need

for minimal interference, as contemplated in Section 5

of the Act, on a prima facie examination as to existence

of an Arbitration Agreement, a reference must be made.

He further also would point out that the Judgment of

Justice Sanjiv Khanna in       Vidya Drolia      (supra) may

require a revisit. With reference to paragraph-31,

wherein   Sanjiv   Khanna,    J.,      felt   bound   by   the

Constitution Bench Judgment in          SBP (supra), it is

pointed   out   that   the   learned    Judge   ignored    the

amendments to Sections 8 and 11 brought about by the

amendment in 2015. He would further point out that in

paragraphs-81 to 154, under the caption ‘Who decides

non-arbitrability’, he calls for clarity to be brought.

In paragraph-98, it is pointed out that an error was

occasioned in coming to the conclusion that Sections 8

and 11 were complementary in nature and in exercising

power under the two provisions, the jurisdiction was

complementary. It is pointed out that the views of

Justice Sanjiv Khanna appear to be inconsistent with

                             24
that of the three-Judge Bench in Mayavati (supra). It

is     submitted        by        the    learned      Amicus      that       the

observations of Justice Sanjiv Khanna, in paragraphs-

146, 147.1, 147.9 and paragraph-147.10 may require

recalibration. Paragraphs-146 to 154, it is the stand

of    the   Amicus      Curiae,         may   have    to    be   fine-tuned.

Learned Amicus would point out that the conclusion of

N.V.    Ramana,    J.        in    Paragraphs-237          and   244   may   be

endorsed to the extent of inconsistency with that of

Justice Sanjiv Khanna. Coming to N.N. Global (supra),

the    learned     Amicus,         apart      from    pointing     out   that

contrary to what was held, viz., that an Arbitration

Agreement was not exigible to stamp duty, it was,

indeed, liable. It is pointed out that the ratio in

paragraphs-22 and 26, would have to be supported. It

is the contention of the learned Amicus that Sections

8 and 11 of the Act could not be equated. The standard

to be applied may be the same, i.e., a prima facie

satisfaction       of    the        existence        of    the   Arbitration

Agreement. In Section 11, the Court operates as a

substitute of an Appointing Authority. There is only a

narrow scope. It is his case, that in an Application

                                        25
under Section 8, the scope may be wider as one has to

see whether there was a valid Arbitration Agreement.

It is his submission that unless it is patently void,

‘subject matter arbitrability’ should be left to the

Arbitrator. In     a Section      8 Application, the Court

should not undertake the exercise of examining of the

issue   relating   to    the    stamp    duty,   which   goes    to

admissibility      and    not     jurisdiction.       The      word

‘existence’ in Section 11(6A) meant legally enforceable

existence and not mere presence in the contract. The

scope of the Court must be circumscribed to narrow the

prima facie examination of:

  i.    Formal validity of the Arbitration Agreement at

        the stage of contract formation, including as to

        whether it is in writing;

  ii. Whether the core contractual ingredients were

        fulfilled?;

  iii. On   rare   occasions,        whether   the   dispute    was

        arbitrable;


17. The adjudication of stamp duty is a time-consuming
affair and it would not align with the goal of the Act,


                                26
which is to      ensure the expeditious appointment of

Arbitrators and the conclusion of the proceedings with

the least judicial interference. If the Court refrained

from interfering on the score of disputes as to stamp

duty and allow the Arbitrator to deal with the matter,

which, he is, in law, fully competent to deal with, it

would     promote    the   very    cause   of    speedy     dispute

resolution, which is the very goal of the institution

of arbitration.

18. At the time of hearing Shri K. Ramakanth Reddy,
learned     senior      counsel    appeared     for   the     first

respondent. He would contend that the court must adopt

a harmonious construction as between the Stamp Act and

the Act. He emphasises the importance of conforming to

Section 5 of the Act. He drew our attention to the

judgment    of   this    Court    in   Great   Offshore   Ltd.   v.

Iranian Offshore Engg. & Construction Co.15 In the said

judgment which is authored by a learned Single Judge,

while dealing with a petition under Section 11 of the

Act, inter alia, held:


15
     (2008) 14 SCC 240
                                  27
       55. Second, the plain language of Section 7
       once again governs my conclusion. Section 7
       does not require that the parties stamp the
       agreement. It would be incorrect to disturb
       Parliament's intention when it is so clearly
       stated and when it in no way conflicts with
       the Constitution.

       60. Technicalities like stamps, seals and even
       signatures are red tape that have to be removed
       before the parties can get what they really
       want—an efficient, effective and potentially
       cheap    resolution      of     their    dispute.
       The autonomie    de   la    volonté doctrine   is
       enshrined in the policy objectives of the
       United Nations Commission on International
       Trade Law (UNCITRAL) Model Law on International
       Commercial Arbitration, 1985, on which our
       Arbitration Act is based. (See Preamble to the
       Act.) The courts must implement legislative
       intention. It would be improper and undesirable
       for the courts to add a number of extra
       formalities not envisaged by the legislation.
       The courts' directions should be to achieve the
       legislative intention.


19. He drew our attention to the judgment of this Court
in    Commissioner     of   Income   Tax   v.   Hindustan    Bulk

Carriers16, inter alia, that a Court should, faced with

two    interpretations      avoid    the   construction     which

reduces the legislation to futility but accept a bolder

construction which will produce an effective result qua

the purpose sought to be achieved.


16
     (2003) 3 SCC 57
                               28
20. Shri Debesh Panda, learned counsel appearing for
the Applicant (Intervention) in I.A.No.199969 of 2022

submitted that the Act constitutes a complete Code.

Since Section 5 of the Act contains a non-obstante

clause which declares that “notwithstanding anything

contained in any other law for the time being in force”

despite the Stamp Act on the principle of minimum

interference except as provided in Part-I of the Act,

the Court should not be detained by Sections 33 and 35

of the Stamp Act. He also reiterates that what is

required     under     Section        11    is     a   prima     facie

satisfaction.        Parliament       did        not   require    the

consideration of validity when it enacted Section 11

(6A). There is a conscious distinction between Sections

8 and 11. In other words, there is a distinction between

the expressions ‘existence’ and ‘validity’. The width

of powers under Section 16 is untrammelled, it is

contended.


E.   ANALYSIS

21. In view of the submission made by the learned
Amicus that the Court in N.N. Global (supra) was in

error in proceeding on the basis that the Arbitration
                                 29
Agreement would not be exigible to stamp duty, the very

premise of the Order of Reference would stand removed.

The reformulated question sans the words, ‘which is not

chargeable   to   payment   of    stamp   duty’,   and   words,

‘unenforceable or invalid’, would, therefore, be as

follows:

      “Whether the statutory bar contained in Section
      35 of the Stamp Act applicable to instruments
      chargeable to stamp duty under Section 3 read
      with the Schedule to the Act, would also render
      the arbitration agreement contained in such an
      instrument, as being non-existent, pending
      payment of stamp duty on the substantive
      contract/instrument?”


F.    THE ACT

22. Section 2(b) of the Act defines an Arbitration
Agreement to be ‘an agreement referred to in Section

7’.

23. Section 5 of the Act declares as follows: -
      “5.   Extent  of judicial  intervention. -
      Notwithstanding anything contained in any
      other law for the time being in force, in
      matters governed by this Part, no judicial
      authority shall intervene except where so
      provided in this Part.”

24. Section 7 of the Act reads as follows:
      “7 Arbitration agreement. —


                             30
        (1) In this Part, “arbitration agreement”
        means an agreement by the parties to submit to
        arbitration all or certain disputes which have
        arisen or which may arise between them in
        respect of a defined legal relationship,
        whether contractual or not.
        (2) An arbitration agreement may be in the form
        of an arbitration clause in a contract or in
        the form of a separate agreement.
        (3) An arbitration   agreement   shall   be   in
        writing.
        (4) An arbitration agreement is in writing if
        it is contained in—
        (a) a document signed by the parties;
        (b) an exchange of letters, telex, telegrams
        or other means of telecommunication which
        provide a record of the agreement; or
        (c) an exchange of statements of claim and
        defence in which the existence of the agreement
        is alleged by one party and not denied by the
        other.
        (5) The reference in a contract to a document
        containing an arbitration clause constitutes
        an arbitration agreement if the contract is in
        writing and the reference is such as to make
        that arbitration clause part of the contract.”


25. Section 11 deals with Appointment of Arbitrators.
Since we are concerned with the impact of Section

11(6A), which was inserted by Act 3 of 2016 w.e.f.

23.10.2015, we deem it appropriate to refer to the

same:

                             31
      “6A. The Supreme Court or, as the case may be,
      the   High   Court,   while   considering   any
      application under sub-section (4) or sub-
      section   (5),   shall,   notwithstanding   any
      judgment, decree or order of any Court, confine
      to the examination of the existence of an
      arbitration agreement.”

      It must be noticed that the aforesaid provision

stands omitted by Act 33 of 2019. But Act 33 of 2019

has not been brought into force.


G.    WHAT LED TO THE INSERTION OF SECTION 11(6A)?

26. It is important to delve into the past and enquire
as to what led to the insertion of sub-Section (6A) in

Section 11 of the Act. The Act was passed in the year

1996. The Act is, undoubtedly, based on the UNCITRAL

MODEL Law. The Hundred and Seventy-Sixth Report of the

Law Commission of India made its recommendations for

enacting amendments to the Act. This is followed by the

Justice     B.P.   Saraf   Committee      Report,     which     was

submitted    on    29.01.2005.    The   nature   of   the     power

exercised by the courts under Section 11 of the Act,

was   the   subject   matter     of   considerable    case     law.

Suffice it to notice, a Bench of seven learned Judges,

with a lone dissent, in SBP (supra), proceeded to hold


                                 32
that the power exercised under Section 11(6) was a

judicial power and not an administrative power. In the

Majority Judgment, the Court had occasion to consider

the impact of Section 16 of the Act, which incorporates

the Principle of Kompetenz-Kompetenz. The Court held,

inter alia, as follows:


     “12. … When the Tribunal decides these two
     questions,     namely,    the     question    of
     jurisdiction and the question of exceeding the
     scope of authority or either of them, the same
     is open to immediate challenge in an appeal,
     when the objection is upheld and only in an
     appeal against the final award, when the
     objection   is   overruled.    Sub-section   (5)
     enjoins that if the Arbitral Tribunal overrules
     the objections under sub-section (2) or (3),
     it   should    continue   with    the   arbitral
     proceedings and make an arbitral award. Sub-
     section (6) provides that a party aggrieved by
     such an arbitral award overruling the plea on
     lack of jurisdiction and the exceeding of the
     scope of authority, may make an application on
     these grounds for setting aside the award in
     accordance with Section 34 of the Act. The
     question, in the context of sub-section (7) of
     Section 11 is, what is the scope of the right
     conferred on the Arbitral Tribunal to rule upon
     its own jurisdiction and the existence of the
     arbitration clause, envisaged by Section
     16(1), once the Chief Justice or the person
     designated by him had appointed an arbitrator
     after satisfying himself that the conditions
     for the exercise of power to appoint an
     arbitrator are present in the case. Prima
     facie, it would be difficult to say that in
     spite of the finality conferred by sub-section
     (7) of Section 11 of the Act, to such a decision
                          33
     of the Chief Justice, the Arbitral Tribunal can
     still go behind that decision and rule on its
     own jurisdiction or on the existence of an
     arbitration clause. It also appears to us to
     be incongruous to say that after the Chief
     Justice had appointed an Arbitral Tribunal, the
     Arbitral Tribunal can turn round and say that
     the Chief Justice had no jurisdiction or
     authority to appoint the Tribunal, the very
     creature brought into existence by the exercise
     of power by its creator, the Chief Justice. The
     argument of the learned Senior Counsel, Mr K.K.
     Venugopal that Section 16 has full play only
     when an Arbitral Tribunal is constituted
     without intervention under Section 11(6) of the
     Act, is one way of reconciling that provision
     with Section 11 of the Act, especially in the
     context of sub-section (7) thereof. We are
     inclined to the view that the decision of the
     Chief Justice on the issue of jurisdiction and
     the existence of a valid arbitration agreement
     would be binding on the parties when the matter
     goes to the Arbitral Tribunal and at subsequent
     stages of the proceeding except in an appeal
     in the Supreme Court in the case of the
     decision being by the Chief Justice of the High
     Court or by a Judge of the High Court
     designated by him.”
                                (Emphasis supplied)


27. We may next notice the Judgment rendered by a Bench
of two learned Judges in SMS Tea Estates (supra). They

dealt with three questions. What is of relevance, is

the second question, which was, ‘whether an Arbitration

Agreement in an unregistered instrument, which is not




                          34
duly stamped, is valid and enforceable’. The Court,

inter alia, held as follows:

     “20. The Scheme for Appointment of Arbitrators
     by the Chief Justice of Gauhati High Court,
     1996 requires an application under Section 11
     of the Act to be accompanied by the original
     arbitration agreement or a duly certified copy
     thereof. In fact, such a requirement is found
     in the scheme/rules of almost all the High
     Courts. If what is produced is a certified copy
     of      the      agreement/contract/instrument
     containing the arbitration clause, it should
     disclose the stamp duty that has been paid on
     the original. Section 33 casts a duty upon
     every court, that is, a person having by law
     authority to receive evidence (as also every
     arbitrator who is a person having by consent
     of parties, authority to receive evidence)
     before   whom   an   unregistered    instrument
     chargeable with duty is produced, to examine
     the instrument in order to ascertain whether
     it is duly stamped. If the court comes to the
     conclusion that the instrument is not duly
     stamped, it has to impound the document and
     deal with it as per Section 38 of the Stamp
     Act.

                xxx          xxx      xxx
     22. We may therefore sum up the procedure to
     be adopted where the arbitration clause is
     contained in a document which is not registered
     (but compulsorily registerable) and which is
     not duly stamped:
     22.1. The court should, before admitting any
     document into evidence or acting upon such

                          35
       document,       examine       whether      the
       instrument/document   is   duly   stamped  and
       whether   it  is   an   instrument   which  is
       compulsorily registerable.

       22.2. If the document is found to be not duly
       stamped, Section 35 of the Stamp Act bars the
       said document being acted upon. Consequently,
       even the arbitration clause therein cannot be
       acted upon. The court should then proceed to
       impound the document under Section 33 of the
       Stamp Act and follow the procedure under
       Sections 35 and 38 of the Stamp Act.

       22.3. If the document is found to be duly
       stamped, or if the deficit stamp duty and
       penalty is paid, either before the court or
       before the Collector (as contemplated in
       Section 35 or 40 Section of the Stamp Act),
       and the defect with reference to deficit stamp
       is cured, the court may treat the document as
       duly stamped.”
                                  (Emphasis supplied)


      This view has been followed subsequently in Garware

(supra) and also in Dharmaratnakara Rai Bahadur Arcot

Narainswamy Mudaliar Chattram v. Bhaskar Raju & Bros.17

We have omitted repetition of paragraphs-19 and 21,

which have been referred to earlier.


17
     (2020) 4 SCC 612
                            36
28. Shin-Etsu Chemical Co. Ltd. v. Aksh Optifibre Ltd.
and another18 was a case of international arbitration

arising under Section 45 of the Act. With a Bench of

three learned Judges deciding the case, the majority

with Justice Y.K. Sabharwal dissenting, took the view

that in deciding the question as to whether a reference

must be made to arbitration under Section 45, the

approach must be to find out whether a prima facie case

is made out and whether it was ‘plainly arguable’ that

an Arbitration Agreement was in existence. The Court,

in other words, took the view that there must be a

prima facie satisfaction that there was an Arbitration

Agreement, which is not null and void, inoperative or

incapable of being performed. Section 45, it must be

noticed, at the time when the case was decided, read

as follows:


       “45. Power of judicial authority to refer
       parties    to     arbitration.-Notwithstanding
       anything contained in Part I or in the Code of
       Civil Procedure , 1908 (5 of 1908), a judicial
       authority, when seized of an action in a matter
       in respect of which the parties have made an
       agreement referred to in section 44, shall, at
       the request of one of the parties or any person

18
     (2005) 7 SCC 234
                            37
       claiming through or under him, refer the
       parties to arbitration, unless it finds that
       the   said  agreement   is   null   and   void,
       inoperative or incapable of being performed.”
                                  (Emphasis supplied)


29. It was on the aforesaid statutory text that Justice
B.N. Srikrishna took the view that the finding as to

the existence of the Arbitration Agreement, was to be

a    prima    facie   finding.   Justice    D.M.    Dharmadhikari

agreed       with   Justice   B.N.    Srikrishna    with    certain

additions.

30.    In National Insurance Company Limited v. Boghara

Polyfab Private Limited19,            the question, which fell

for consideration before the Bench of                   two learned

Judges, was as to in what circumstances, a Court would

refuse    to    refer   a   dispute   relating     to   quantum   to

arbitration even though the contract contemplated a

reference of such a dispute to arbitration. It also

fell for consideration, as to whether the resistance

to the reference on the ground that the applicant under

Section 11 of the Act, received the amount and issued

a full and final discharge voucher, which he contented


19
     (2009) 1 SCC 267
                                 38
was issued under undue influence, coercion and economic

compulsion,   justified   the    reference.     Justice   R.V.

Raveendran,   speaking    for    the   Court,   inter     alia,

purported to follow the Judgment in SBP (supra) and

held as follows:

     “22. Where the intervention of the court is
     sought for appointment of an Arbitral Tribunal
     under Section 11, the duty of the Chief Justice
     or   his   designate  is   defined   in SBP   &
     Co. [(2005) 8 SCC 618] This Court identified
     and segregated the preliminary issues that may
     arise for consideration in an application under
     Section 11 of the Act into three categories,
     that is, (i) issues which the Chief Justice or
     his designate is bound to decide; (ii) issues
     which he can also decide, that is, issues which
     he may choose to decide; and (iii) issues which
     should be left to the Arbitral Tribunal to
     decide.

     22.1. The issues (first category) which the
     Chief Justice/his designate will have to decide
     are:
          (a)  Whether   the   party    making   the
       application has approached the appropriate
       High Court.
          (b) Whether there is an arbitration
       agreement and whether the party who has
       applied under Section 11 of the Act, is a
       party to such an agreement.

     22.2. The issues (second category) which the
     Chief Justice/his designate may choose to
     decide (or leave them to the decision of the
     Arbitral Tribunal) are:
                            39
(a) Whether the claim is a dead (long-barred)
claim or a live claim.
(b) Whether the parties have concluded the
contract/transaction by recording satisfaction
of their mutual rights and obligation or by
receiving the final payment without objection.

22.3. The issues (third category) which the
Chief Justice/his designate should leave
exclusively to the Arbitral Tribunal are:
(i) Whether a claim made falls within the
arbitration clause (as for example, a matter
which is reserved for final decision of a
departmental   authority   and   excepted or
excluded from arbitration).
(ii) Merits or any claim involved in the
arbitration.

23. It is clear from the scheme of the Act as
explained by this Court in SBP & Co. [(2005) 8
SCC 618] , that in regard to issues falling
under the second category, if raised in any
application under Section 11 of the Act, the
Chief Justice/his designate may decide them,
if    necessary,    by     taking    evidence.
Alternatively, he may leave those issues open
with a direction to the Arbitral Tribunal to
decide the same. If the Chief Justice or his
designate chooses to examine the issue and
decides it, the Arbitral Tribunal cannot re-
examine the same issue. The Chief Justice/his
designate will, in choosing whether he will
decide such issue or leave it to the Arbitral
Tribunal, be guided by the object of the Act
(that is expediting the arbitration process
with minimum judicial intervention). Where
allegations of forgery/fabrication are made in
regard to the document recording discharge of
                    40
      contract by full and final settlement, it would
      be appropriate if the Chief Justice/his
      designate decides the issue.

      24. What is however clear is when a respondent
      contends that the dispute is not arbitrable on
      account of discharge of the contract under a
      settlement agreement or discharge voucher or
      no-claim   certificate,    and   the   claimant
      contends that it was obtained by fraud,
      coercion or undue influence, the issue will
      have to be decided either by the Chief
      Justice/his designate in the proceedings under
      Section 11 of the Act or by the Arbitral
      Tribunal as directed by the order under Section
      11 of the Act. A claim for arbitration cannot
      be rejected merely or solely on the ground that
      a settlement agreement or discharge voucher had
      been executed by the claimant, if its validity
      is disputed by the claimant.”

31.   It is to be noticed that, at the time when the

Court rendered SBP (supra) and SMS Tea Estates (supra),

Section 11(6) contemplated appointment being made of

an Arbitrator, essentially on the failure of parties

to agree on the appointment or to make the appointment.

It is in the context of the views expressed by the

Courts, as aforesaid, that the Law Commission of India

submitted the Two Hundred and Forty-Sixth Report in

August, 2014. In the said Report, after referring to

the Judgment in SBP (supra) and the views expressed in

                           41
National Insurance (supra), the Law Commission, inter

alia, submitted the following recommendations:

     “31. The Commission is of the view that, in
     this context, the same test regarding scope and
     nature of judicial intervention, as applicable
     in the context of Section 11, should also apply
     to Sections 8 and 45 of the Act - since the
     scope and nature of judicial intervention
     should not change upon whether a party
     (intending    to   defeat    the    arbitration
     agreement) refuses to appoint an arbitrator in
     terms of the arbitration agreement, or moves a
     proceeding before a judicial authority in the
     face of such an arbitration agreement.

     32. In relation to the nature of intervention,
     the exposition of the law is to be found in
     the decision of the Supreme Court in Shin Etsu
     Chemicals Co. Ltd. v. Aksh Optifibre, (2005) 7
     SCC 234, (in the context of Section 45 of the
     Act), where the Supreme Court has ruled in
     favour of looking at the issues/controversy
     only prima facie.
     33. It is in this context, the Commission has
     recommended amendments to Sections 8 and 11 of
     the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. The
     scope of the judicial intervention is only
     restricted     to    situations     where    the
     Court/Judicial    Authority   finds   that   the
     arbitration agreement does not exist or is null
     and void. In so far as the nature of
     intervention is concerned, it is recommended
     that in the event the Court/Judicial Authority
     is prima facie satisfied against the argument
     challenging the arbitration agreement, it
     shall appoint the arbitrator and/or refer the
     parties to arbitration, as the case may be. The
     amendment    envisages    that   the    judicial
     authority shall not refer the parties to
     arbitration only if it finds that there does
     not exist an arbitration agreement or that it
                          42
     is null and void. If the judicial authority is
     of the opinion that prima facie the arbitration
     agreement exists, then it shall refer the
     dispute to arbitration, and leave the existence
     of the arbitration agreement to be finally
     determined by the arbitral tribunal. However,
     if the judicial authority concludes that the
     agreement does not exist, then the conclusion
     will be final and not prima facie. The
     amendment also envisages that there shall be a
     conclusive determination as to whether the
     arbitration agreement is null and void. In the
     event that the judicial authority refers the
     dispute to arbitration and/or appoints an
     arbitrator,    Under   Sections    8   and   11
     respectively, such a decision will be final and
     non-appealable. An appeal can be maintained
     Under Section 37 only in the event of refusal
     to refer parties to arbitration, or refusal to
     appoint an arbitrator.”
                                 (Emphasis supplied)


32. It is, accordingly, accepting the Report that
Section 11(6A) came to be inserted. After having set

out the events, which led to the insertion of Section

11(6A), we may take the narrative forward.     In Duro

Felguera (supra), we have noticed the view taken in

paragraph 59 in an earlier part of this judgment, in

essence, the duty to find out whether an arbitration

agreement exists or not.   The learned Judge also made

observations in paragraph 48 wherein after quoting

Section 11(6A) he held as follows:


                           43
      “…From a reading of Section 11(6-A), the
      intention of the legislature is crystal
      clear i.e. the court should and need only
      look into one aspect—the existence of an
      arbitration agreement. What are the factors
      for deciding as to whether there is an
      arbitration agreement is the next question.
      The resolution to that is simple—it needs
      to be seen if the agreement contains a
      clause which provides for arbitration
      pertaining to the disputes which have
      arisen   between   the   parties   to   the
      agreement.”


33. In Garware (supra) a Bench of two learned Judges
dealt with a case under Section 11(6A) itself and that

too in the context of the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958.

The contention raised by the appellant was that the

Judgment in SMS Tea Estates (supra) continues to apply

even after the introduction of Section 11(6A). In other

words, notwithstanding the insertion of Section 11(6A),

the procedure contemplated in SMS Tea Estates (supra)

would have to be followed. The Court went on to hold,

inter alia, as noticed by us already and which has been

referred to in N.N. Global (supra):


     22. When an arbitration Clause is contained "in
     a contract", it is significant that the
     agreement only becomes a contract if it is
     enforceable by law. We have seen how, under the
     Indian Stamp Act, an agreement does not become

                          44
     a contract, namely, that it is not enforceable
     in law, unless it is duly stamped. Therefore,
     even a plain reading of Section 11(6A), when
     read with Section 7(2) of the 1996 Act and
     Section 2(h) of the Contract Act, would make
     it clear that an arbitration Clause in an
     agreement would not exist when it is not
     enforceable by law. This is also an indicator
     that SMS Tea Estates has, in no manner, been
     touched by the amendment of Section 11(6A).
         XXX              XXX               XXX
     29. This judgment in Hyundai Engg. case is
     important in that what was specifically under
     consideration was an arbitration Clause which
     would get activated only if an insurer admits
     or accepts liability. Since on facts it was
     found that the insurer repudiated the claim,
     though an arbitration Clause did "exist", so
     to speak, in the policy, it would not exist in
     law, as was held in that judgment, when one
     important fact is introduced, namely, that the
     insurer has not admitted or accepted liability.
     Likewise, in the facts of the present case, it
     is clear that the arbitration Clause that is
     contained in the sub-contract would not "exist"
     as a matter of law until the sub-contract is
     duly stamped, as has been held by us above.
     The argument that Section 11(6A) deals with
     "existence", as opposed to Section 8, Section
     16, and Section 45, which deal with "validity"
     of an arbitration agreement is answered by this
     Court's   understanding   of   the   expression
     "existence" in Hyundai Engg. Case as followed
     by us.”


34. We may notice that in Section 45 of the Act, for
the words ‘unless it finds’, by Act 33 of 2019, the

words ‘unless it prima facie finds’, were substituted.


                          45
This amounted to a legislative recognition of the

position taken by this Court through the Judgment

rendered by Justice B. N. Srikrishna in SMS Tea Estates

(supra).


35. In Mayavati Trading (P) Ltd. v. Pradyuat Deb
Burman20, a Bench of three learned Judges of this Court

inter alia held as follows:

         10. This being the position, it is clear
         that the law prior to the 2015 Amendment
         that has been laid down by this Court, which
         would have included going into whether
         accord and satisfaction has taken place,
         has now been legislatively overruled. This
         being the position, it is difficult to
         agree with the reasoning contained in the
         aforesaid judgment [United India Insurance
         Co. Ltd. v. Antique Art Exports (P) Ltd.,
         (2019) 5 SCC 362 : (2019) 2 SCC (Civ) 785],
         as Section 11(6-A) is confined to the
         examination     of    the existence of    an
         arbitration   agreement    and  is   to   be
         understood in the narrow sense as has been
         laid down in the judgment in Duro Felguera,
         SA [Duro Felguera, SA v. Gangavaram Port
         Ltd., (2017) 9 SCC 729 : (2017) 4 SCC (Civ)
         764] — see paras 48 & 59 [Ed. : The said
         paras    48   &    59   of Duro    Felguera,
         SA v. Gangavaram Port Ltd., (2017) 9 SCC
         729 : (2017) 4 SCC (Civ) 764, for ready
         reference, read as follows:“48. Section
         11(6-A) added by the 2015 Amendment, reads
         as follows:“11. (6-A) The Supreme Court or,
         as the case may be, the High Court, while

20
     (2019) 8 SCC 714
                            46
      considering any application under sub-
      section (4) or sub-section (5) or sub-
      section (6), shall, notwithstanding any
      judgment, decree or order of any court,
      confine to the examination of the existence
      of an arbitration agreement.”(emphasis
      supplied)From a reading of Section 11(6-A),
      the intention of the legislature is crystal
      clear i.e. the court should and need only
      look into one aspect—the existence of an
      arbitration agreement. What are the factors
      for deciding as to whether there is an
      arbitration agreement is the next question.
      The resolution to that is simple—it needs
      to be seen if the agreement contains a
      clause which provides for arbitration
      pertaining to the disputes which have
      arisen    between   the   parties   to  the
      agreement.***59. The scope of the power
      under Section 11(6) of the 1996 Act was
      considerably wide in view of the decisions
      in SBP & Co. v. Patel Engg. Ltd., (2005) 8
      SCC    618   and National    Insurance  Co.
 Ltd. v. Boghara Polyfab (P) Ltd., (2009) 1
      SCC 267 : (2009) 1 SCC (Civ) 117. This
      position continued till the amendment
      brought about in 2015. After the amendment,
      all that the courts need to see is whether
      an arbitration agreement exists—nothing
      more, nothing less. The legislative policy
      and purpose is essentially to minimise the
      Court's intervention at the stage of
      appointing    the   arbitrator    and  this
      intention as incorporated in Section 11(6-
      A) ought to be respected.”] .

36. The view taken in Garware (supra) [paragraphs-22
and 29 (supra)], came to be specifically approved by a


                         47
Bench of three learned Judges in the Judgment reported

in Vidya Drolia (supra). Therein, Justice Sanjiv Khanna

wrote     for     the     Court     and   Justice   N.V.    Ramana

supplemented with his own Judgment. The Judgment was

rendered    on    a     Reference    dated   28.02.2009    and   the

question        was,    whether      landlord-tenant      disputes,

governed by provisions of the Transfer of Property Act

were arbitrable or not. Apart from the said issue, the

other conundrum was as to who would decide, viz., the

Court at the reference stage, or the Arbitral Tribunal

in the arbitration proceedings. The Court also found

it fit to go into the question as to the scope and

ambit of the jurisdiction at the reference stage. It

is in the course of his Judgement that he made the

following observations in pargraphs-146 and 147, 147.1

of Vidya Drolia (supra):

        “146. We now proceed to examine the question,
        whether the word “existence” in Section 11
        merely refers to contract formation (whether
        there is an arbitration agreement) and excludes
        the question of enforcement (validity) and
        therefore   the   latter  falls   outside   the
        jurisdiction of the court at the referral
        stage. On jurisprudentially and textualism it
        is possible to differentiate between existence
        of an arbitration agreement and validity of an
                                    48
arbitration agreement. Such interpretation can
draw support from the plain meaning of the word
“existence”. However, it is equally possible,
jurisprudentially and on contextualism, to
hold that an agreement has no existence if it
is not enforceable and not binding. Existence
of an arbitration agreement presupposes a valid
agreement which would be enforced by the court
by relegating the parties to arbitration.
Legalistic and plain meaning interpretation
would be contrary to the contextual background
including the definition clause and would
result    in    unpalatable    consequences.   A
reasonable     and   just    interpretation   of
“existence”     requires    understanding    the
context, the purpose and the relevant legal
norms applicable for a binding and enforceable
arbitration agreement. An agreement evidenced
in writing has no meaning unless the parties
can be compelled to adhere and abide by the
terms. A party cannot sue and claim rights
based on an unenforceable document. Thus, there
are good reasons to hold that an arbitration
agreement exists only when it is valid and
legal. A void and unenforceable understanding
is no agreement to do anything. Existence of
an arbitration agreement means an arbitration
agreement    that   meets   and   satisfies  the
statutory requirements of both the Arbitration
Act and the Contract Act and when it is
enforceable in law.

147. We would proceed to elaborate and give
further reasons:

147.1. In Garware Wall Ropes Ltd. [Garware
Wall     Ropes     Ltd. v. Coastal      Marine
Constructions & Engg. Ltd., (2019) 9 SCC 209 :

                     49
(2019) 4 SCC (Civ) 324] , this Court had
examined the question of stamp duty in an
underlying contract with an arbitration clause
and in the context had drawn a distinction
between the first and second part of Section
7(2) of the Arbitration Act, albeit the
observations made and quoted above with
reference to “existence” and “validity” of the
arbitration agreement being apposite and
extremely important, we would repeat the same
by reproducing para 29 thereof : (SCC p. 238)
“29.    This    judgment    in Hyundai    Engg.
case [United      India      Insurance      Co.
Ltd. v. Hyundai Engg. & Construction Co. Ltd.,
(2018) 17 SCC 607 : (2019) 2 SCC (Civ) 530] is
important in that what was specifically under
consideration was an arbitration clause which
would get activated only if an insurer admits
or accepts liability. Since on facts it was
found that the insurer repudiated the claim,
though an arbitration clause did “exist”, so
to speak, in the policy, it would not exist in
law, as was held in that judgment, when one
important fact is introduced, namely, that the
insurer has not admitted or accepted liability.
Likewise, in the facts of the present case, it
is clear that the arbitration clause that is
contained in the sub-contract would not “exist”
as a matter of law until the sub-contract is
duly stamped, as has been held by us above.
The argument that Section 11(6-A) deals with
“existence”, as opposed to Section 8, Section
16 and Section 45, which deal with “validity”
of an arbitration agreement is answered by this
Court's   understanding   of   the   expression
“existence”   in Hyundai   Engg.   case [United
India Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Hyundai Engg. &


                     50
     Construction Co. Ltd., (2018) 17 SCC 607 :
     (2019) 2 SCC (Civ) 530] , as followed by us.”
     Existence and validity are intertwined, and
     arbitration agreement does not exist if it is
     illegal or does not satisfy mandatory legal
     requirements.   Invalid   agreement   is    no
     agreement.”


37. It is thereafter that in N.N. Global (supra), the
Court doubted the correctness of the view taken in the

aforesaid paragraphs and referred to the findings in

paragraph-22 and 29 in Garware (supra), which stood

affirmed in paragraphs-146 and 147 of Vidya Drolia

(supra). We may notice that paragraph-147 of Vidya

Drolia (supra) purported to give reasons in regard to

what was stated in paragraph-146. Paragraph-147 is

followed by paragraphs- 147.1 to 147.11. However, what,

apparently, the Court in N.N. Global (supra) doubted,

appears   to   be   paragraphs-146   and   147,   which   we

understand in the context of this case, is to be

confined to paragraph-147.1.

38. We may resume survey of the Act to the extent it
is relevant. Section 16 enshrines the Principle of

Kompetenz-Kompetenz. It reads as follows:



                            51
“16. Competence of arbitral tribunal to rule
on its jurisdiction.—
(1) The arbitral tribunal may rule on its own
jurisdiction,   including    ruling   on   any
objections with respect to the existence or
validity of the arbitration agreement, and for
that purpose,—
(a) an arbitration clause which forms part of
a contract shall be treated as an agreement
independent of the other terms of the contract;
and
(b) a decision by the arbitral tribunal that
the contract is null and void shall not entail
ipso jure the invalidity of the arbitration
clause.
(2) A plea that the arbitral tribunal does not
have jurisdiction shall be raised not later
than the submission of the statement of
defence; however, a party shall not be
precluded from raising such a plea merely
because that he has appointed, or participated
in the appointment of, an arbitrator.
(3) A plea that the arbitral tribunal is
exceeding the scope of its authority shall be
raised as soon as the matter alleged to be
beyond the scope of its authority is raised
during the arbitral proceedings.
(4) The arbitral tribunal may, in either of the
cases referred to in sub-section (2) or sub-
section (3), admit a later plea if it considers
the delay justified.
(5) The arbitral tribunal shall decide on a
plea referred to in sub-section (2) or sub-
section (3) and, where the arbitral tribunal
takes a decision rejecting the plea, continue
with the arbitral proceedings and make an
arbitral award.

                     52
      (6) A party aggrieved by such an arbitral award
      may make an application for setting aside such
      an arbitral award in accordance with section
      34.”


H.    THE SCHEME OF THE STAMP ACT

39. Section 2(6) defines the word ‘chargeable’ as
follows:

      “2(6) “Chargeable”. — ―chargeable means, as
      applied to an instrument executed or first
      executed after the commencement of this Act,
      chargeable under this Act, and, as applied to
      any other instrument, chargeable under the law
      in force in India when such instrument was
      executed or, where several persons executed the
      instrument    at   different    times,    first
      executed:”

40.   Section 2(11) defines the words ‘duly stamped’ as

follows:

      “2(11) “Duly stamped”. — duly stamped, as
      applied to an instrument, means that the
      instrument bears an adhesive or impressed stamp
      of not less than the proper amount and that
      such stamp has been affixed or used in
      accordance with the law for the time being in
      force in India:”


41. Section 2(12) defines the word ‘executed’ with
reference to instruments as meaning ‘signed’.

42. Section 2(14) defines the word ‘instrument’ as
‘including   every   document,   by   which   any   right   or


                            53
liability is or purports to be created, transferred,

limited, extended, extinguished or recorded’.

43. Section 3 deals with the instruments indicated
therein being chargeable with duty, subject to what is

provided by way of exemptions contained in Schedule I.

44. Section 4 contemplates a situation, where there
are several instruments.

45. There are other provisions, which relate to other
transactions.    Section   17   deals   with   the   time   of

stamping   of   instruments.    Section   17   provides     for

instruments executed in India. It declares that such

instruments, chargeable with duty, shall be stamped

before or at the time of execution. Section 31 deals

with adjudication as to proper stamp. The adjudication

is to be made by the Collector. Chapter IV contains

Section 33 and the Chapter heading is ‘Instruments not

duly stamped’. In the Stamp Act, Section 33 reads as

follows:

     “33.    Examination   and    impounding   of
     instruments. —
     (1) Every person having by law or consent of
     parties authority to receive evidence, and
     every person in charge of a pubic office,
     except an officer of police, before whom any

                            54
     instrument, chargeable, in his opinion, with
     duty, is produced or comes in the performance
     of his functions, shall, if it appears to him
     that such instrument is not duly stamped,
     impound the same.

     (2) For that purpose every such person shall
     examine every instrument so chargeable and so
     produced or coming before him, in order to
     ascertain whether it is stamped with a stamp
     of the value and description required by the
     law in force in India when such instrument was
     executed or first executed: Provided that—

     (a) nothing herein contained shall be deemed
     to require any Magistrate or Judge of a
     Criminal Court to examine or impound, if he
     does not think fit so to do, any instrument
     coming before him in the course of any
     proceeding other than a proceeding under
     Chapter XII or Chapter XXXVI of the Code of
     Criminal Procedure, 1898 (V of 1989);

     (b) in the case of a Judge of a High Court,
     the duty of examining and impounding any
     instrument under this section may be delegated
     to such officer as the Court appoints in this
     behalf.

     (3) For the purposes of this section, in cases
     of doubt, —


     (a) the State Government may determine what
     offices shall be deemed to be public offices;
     (b) the State Government may determine who
     shall be deemed to be persons in charge of
     public offices.”


46. Next, we must notice Section 35, which reads as
follows:

                         55
“35. Instruments not duly stamped inadmissible
in evidence, etc. — No instrument chargeable
with duty shall be admitted in evidence for any
purpose by any person having by law or consent
of parties authority to receive evidence, or
shall    be   acted    upon,   registered    or
authenticated by any such person or by any
public officer, unless such instrument is duly
stamped : Provided that—
(a) any such instrument shall be admitted in
evidence on payment of the duty with which the
same is chargeable, or, in the case of any
instrument insufficiently stamped, of the
amount required to make up such duty, together
with a penalty of five rupees, or, when ten
times the amount of the proper duty or
deficient portion thereof exceeds five rupees,
of a sum equal to ten times such duty or
portion;

(b) where any person from whom a stamped
receipt could have been demanded, has given an
unstamped receipt and such receipt, if stamped,
would be admissible in evidence against him,
then such receipt shall be admitted in evidence
against him on payment of a penalty of one
rupee by the person tendering it;

(c) Where a contract or agreement of any kind
is effected by correspondence consisting of two
or more letters and any one of the letters
bears the proper stamp, the contract or
agreement shall be deemed to be duly stamped;

(d) nothing herein contained shall prevent the
admission of any instrument in evidence in
proceeding in a Criminal Court, other than a
proceeding under Chapter XII or Chapter XXXVI
of the Code of Criminal Procedure 1898 (V of
1898);

(e) nothing herein contained shall prevent the
admission of any instrument in any Court when
such instrument has been executed by or on
                     56
     behalf of the Government, or where it bears the
     certificate of the Collector as provided by
     section 32 or any other provision of this Act.”

47. Equally, we must bear in mind Section 36. It
provides as follows:

     “36. Admission of instrument where not to be
     questioned. —Where an instrument has been
     admitted in evidence, such admission shall not,
     except as provided in section 61, be called in
     question at any stage of the same suit or
     proceeding on the ground that the instrument
     has not been duly stamped.”


48. Section 38 deals with, how instruments, which are
impounded, must be dealt with. It reads as follows:

     “38. Instruments impounded how dealt with. —
     (1) When the person impounding an instrument
     under section 33 has by law or consent of
     parties authority to receive evidence and
     admits such instrument in evidence upon payment
     of a penalty as provided by section 35 or of
     duty as provided by section 37, he shall send
     to the Collector an authenticated copy of such
     instrument, together with a certificate in
     writing, stating the amount of duty and penalty
     levied in respect thereof, and shall send such
     amount to the Collector, or to such person as
     he may appoint in this behalf.”

49. Section 42 is relevant and it reads as follows: -
     “42. Endorsement of instruments on which duty
     has been paid under sections 35, 40 or 41— (1)
     When the duty and penalty (if any), leviable
     in respect of any instrument have been paid
     under section 35, section 40 or section 41, the

                          57
    person admitting such instrument in evidence
    or the Collector, as the case may be, shall
    certify by endorsement thereon that the proper
    duty or, as the case may be, the proper duty
    and penalty (stating the amount of each) have
    been levied in respect thereof, and the name
    and residence of the person paying them.

    (2)   Every  instrument so endorsed shall
    thereupon be admissible in evidence, and may
    be registered and acted upon and authenticated
    as if it had been duly stamped, and shall be
    delivered on his application in this behalf to
    the person from whose possession it came into
    the hands of the officer impounding it, or as
    such person may direct:

    Provided that—

    (a) no instrument which has been admitted in
    evidence upon payment of duty and a penalty
    under section 35, shall be so delivered before
    the expiration of one month from the date of
    such impounding, or if the Collector has
    certified that its further detention is
    necessary   and   has   not   cancelled   such
    certificate;

    (b) nothing in this section shall affect clause
    3.”

50. Section 62(1)(b) makes it punishable with fine,
which may extend to Rs.500/- for a person to execute

or sign otherwise than as a witness, any instrument

chargeable with duty, without the same     being duly

stamped. The proviso, no doubt, contemplates that if




                         58
any penalty has been paid under Sections 35, 40 or 61,

the same shall be reduced.


I.    HINDUSTAN STEEL LIMITED ANALYSED

51. This Court in Hindustan Steel Limited v. Dilip
Construction Company21, was dealing with the following

set of facts:

           An award was made by an Umpire under the Indian

      Arbitration Act, 1940, which was filed in the

      Court. The appellant applied to set aside the

      Award,    inter     alia,    contending        that   it    was

      unstamped.     It   contended    that     it    was   on   that

      account, invalid, illegal and liable to be set

      aside. The respondent thereupon applied to the

      District Court to have the Award impounded and

      validated by the levy of stamp duty and penalty.
      The Award was impounded and visited with duty and

      penalty, which was duly paid and certified. The

      contention of the appellant was that, not only

      could    an   unstamped     Award,   be   not    admitted    in

      evidence, but it could not be acted upon, as the



21
     (1969) 1 SCC 597
                                  59
instrument had no existence in the eye of law.    It

is thereupon that the Court had held, inter alia:

      “5. An instrument which is not duly
    stamped cannot be received in evidence by
    any person who has authority to receive
    evidence, and it cannot be acted upon by
    that person or by any public officer.
 Section 35 provides that the admissibility
    of an instrument once admitted in evidence
    shall not, except as provided in Section
    61, be called in question at any stage of
    the same suit or proceeding on the ground
    that the instrument has not been duly
    stamped.
       6. Relying upon the difference in the
    phraseology between Sections 35 and 36 it
    was urged that an instrument which is not
    duly stamped may be admitted in evidence on
    payment of duty and penalty, but it cannot
    be acted upon because Section 35 operates
    as a bar to the admission in evidence of
    the instrument not duly stamped as well as
    to    its   being acted   upon,   and   the
    Legislature has by Section 36 in the
    conditions set out therein removed the bar
    only against admission in evidence of the
    instrument. The argument ignores the true
    import of Section 36. By that section an
    instrument once admitted in evidence shall
    not be called in question at any stage of
    the same suit or proceeding on the ground
    that it has not been duly stamped. Section
    36 does not prohibit a challenge against an
    instrument that it shall not be acted upon
    because it is not duly stamped, but on that

                     60
    account there is no bar against an
    instrument not duly stamped being acted
    upon after payment of the stamp duty and
    penalty   according   to    the   procedure
    prescribed by the Act. The doubt, if any,
    is removed by the terms of Section 42(2)
    which enact, in terms unmistakable, that
    every instrument endorsed by the Collector
    under Section 42(1) shall be admissible in
    evidence and may be acted upon as if it has
    been duly stamped.”


    We may also profitably refer to paragraph-8 as

well:

      “8. Our attention was invited to the
    statement of law by M.C. Desai, J., in Mst
    Bittan Bibi v. Kuntu Lal [ILR (1952) 2 All
    984] :
        “A court is prohibited from admitting
      an instrument in evidence and a court and
      a public officer both are prohibited from
      acting upon it. Thus a court is
      prohibited from both admitting it in
      evidence and acting upon it. It follows
      that the acting upon is not included in
      the admission and that a document can be
      admitted in evidence but not be acted
      upon. Of course it cannot be acted upon
      without its being admitted, but it can be
      admitted and yet be not acted upon. If
      every document, upon admission, became
      automatically liable to be acted upon,
      the provision in Section 35 that an
      instrument chargeable with duty but not
      duly stamped, shall not be acted upon by
      the Court, would be rendered redundant by
      the provision that it shall not be
      admitted in evidence for any purpose. To

                     61
             act upon an instrument is to give effect
             to it or to enforce it.”

               “In our judgment, the learned Judge
             attributed to Section 36 a meaning which
             the legislature did not intend. Attention
             of the learned Judge was apparently not
             invited to Section 42(2) of the Act which
             expressly renders an instrument, when
             certified by endorsement that proper duty
             and penalty have been levied in respect
             thereof, capable of being acted upon as
             if it had been duly stamped.”




52. We draw the following conclusions, as to what has
been laid down by a Bench of three learned Judges in

Hindustan Steel (supra):

        i.     The Stamp Act is a fiscal measure intended

               to raise revenue;

        ii. The stringent provisions of the Act are

               meant    to    protect     the   interest    of    the

               Revenue;

        iii. It is not intended to be used as a weapon

               by a litigant to defeat the cause of the

               opponent;

        iv. Upon       the    endorsement       being    made   under

               Section       42(2)   of   the    Stamp    Act,   the



                                62
                  document would be admissible in evidence

                  and can be acted upon.

       We may only observe that the Court did not take

into consideration Section 17 of the Stamp Act, which

provides for the precise time, at which, the instrument

is to be stamped. Equally, the Court did not bear in

mind    that     Section    62    of   the   Stamp   Act,   penalises

transgression of Section 17, inter alia. Still further,

the Court was dealing with an instrument after it was

impounded, and the payments made which were certified

under Section 42(2).

       It   is   true      that   an    unstamped    instrument    is

compulsorily impoundable under Section 33 of the Stamp

Act. The procedure to be followed thereafter is also

provided in the Act. After the procedure is followed

and the duty and the penalty is paid, the instrument

would come to be visited with the endorsement under

Section 42(2). Thereafter, it becomes enforceable and

it can be acted upon, as held in Hindustan Steel

(supra).

                                   63
J.  THE INDIAN CONTRACT ACT, 1872 - A SURVEY;
DISSECTION OF GARWARE, VIDYA DROLIA AND N.N.
GLOBAL

53. Section 2(g) of the Contract Act provides that an
agreement, not enforceable by law, is said to be void,

whereas,   Section   2(h)   declares    that   an    agreement

enforceable by law, is a contract. Section 2(j) of the

same Act provides that a contract, which ceases to be

enforceable by law, becomes void, when it ceases to be

enforceable. We may, at once, notice the distinction

between    an   agreement   and   a   contract.     Not   every

agreement is a contract. Only those agreements, which

are enforceable, are treated as contracts. The result

of a contract, ceasing to be enforceable, is that, the

contract becomes void. Next, we may notice Section 10.

It reads as follows:

     “What   agreements   are  contracts.  -   All
     agreements are contracts, if they are made by
     the free consent of parties, competent to
     contract, for a lawful consideration and with
     a lawful object and are not hereby expressly
     declared to be void.
     Nothing herein contained shall affect any law
     in force in India, and not hereby expressly
     repealed, by which any contract is required to
     be made in writing or in the presence of


                             64
     witnesses, or any law relating         to   the
     registration of documents.”

    Section 10, in the first part, when broken down

into parts, consists of the following: ‘Agreement must

be made by free consent of parties’.

54. Section 14 defines ‘free consent’ and it reads:
     “14. ‘Free consent’ defined. -Consent is said
     to be free when it is not caused by-
     (1) Coercion, as defined in section 15, or
     (2) Undue influence, as defined in section 16,
     or
     (3) Fraud, as defined in section 17, or
     (4) Misrepresentation as defined in section 18,
     or
     (5) Mistake, subject to the provisions of
     sections 20, 21 and 22.
     Consent is said to be so caused when it would
     not have been given but for the existence of
     such   coercion,   undue    influence,   fraud,
     misrepresentation or mistake.”


55. The next part of Section 10 to be noticed is the
expression ‘parties competent to contract’. Section 11

of the Contract Act declares that every person is

competent to contract, according to the law, to which

he is subject, and who is of sound mind and is not

disqualified from contracting by any law to which he

is subject. Since Section 11 requires soundness of mind

for the person to be competent to contract, Section 12
 65
articulates as to what is sound mind for the purpose

of the Contract Act. The next part in Section 10 is

that there must be ‘a lawful consideration and a lawful

object’. The said aspect is dealt with in Section 23.

It reads as follows:

     “23. What consideration and objects are lawful,
     and what not. - The consideration or object of
     an agreement is lawful, unless-
     It is forbidden by law; or
     Is of such a nature that, if permitted, it
     would defeat the provisions of any law, or is
     fraudulent; or

     Involves or implies, injury to the person or
     property of another; or

     The Court regards it as immoral, or opposed to
     public policy.

         In each of these cases, the consideration
     or object of an agreement is said to be
     unlawful. Every agreement of which the object
     or consideration is unlawful is void.”

56. The last part of the first limb of Section 10
provides that all agreements are contracts ‘which are

not hereby declared to be void’. Sections 24 to 30 are

the remaining provisions in Chapter II, which deal with

agreements, which are declared to be void within the

meaning of Section 10. This is apart from Section 20

as we shall notice later. Also, the second part of


                          66
Section 10 provides that peremptory requirements may

still have to be met to constitute a contract a law.

57. Further, we have already noticed that free consent
is indispensable for making an agreement, a contract,

under Section 10. Free consent has been defined in

Section 14 and it must be read in conjunction with

Sections 15 to 18 as Sections 15 to 18 define coercion,

undue      influence,   fraud    and   misrepresentation,

respectively. Now, the result of there being coercion,

fraud or misrepresentation in securing the consent of

a party, is provided for in Section 19 of the Contract

Act. The presence of the three elements results in what

is described as a contract voidable at the option of

the party, whose consent was so caused. The effect of

misrepresentation has been dealt with by this Court in

the judgment reported in Ganga Retreat & Towers Ltd.

v. State of Rajasthan22, as follows:


        “28. According to Section 19 of the Contract
        Act when consent to an agreement is caused by
        misrepresentation, the agreement is a contract
        voidable at the option of the party whose
        consent was so caused. The latter may, if he
        thinks fit, insist that the contract shall be

22
     (2003) 12 SCC 91
                            67
performed and that he shall be put in the
position in which he would have been if the
representations made had been true. According
to Section 2 clause (i), an agreement which is
enforceable by law at the option of one or more
of the parties thereto, but not at the option
of the other or others, is a voidable contract.
It is not necessary for us to record a clear
finding whether there was a misrepresentation
on the part of the respondents or not. Suffice
it to observe that a voidable contract confers
the right of election on the party affected to
exercise its option to avoid the legal
relations created by the contract or to stand
by the contract and insist on its performance.
However, his election to stand by the contract
once exercised would have the effect of
ratification of the contract with the knowledge
of misrepresentation on the part of the other
party and that would extinguish its power of
avoidance. In the very nature of the right
conferred on the party affected, the law
expects it to exercise its option promptly and
communicate the same to the opposite party; for
until the right of avoidance is exercised, the
contract is valid, and things done thereunder
may not thereafter be undone.

29. A right to rescind for misrepresentation
can be lost in a variety of ways, some
depending on the right of election. A
representee on discovering the truth loses his
right to rescind if once he has elected not to
rescind. But he may lose even before he has
made any election where by reason of his
conduct or other circumstances it would be
unjust or inequitable that he retains the
right. For instance, where third parties have
acquired rights under the contract; again where
it would be unjust to the representor because
it is impossible to restore him to his original
position. Restitutio in integrum is not only a
consequence of rescission, its possibility is
indispensable to the right to rescind. Again,
                     68
     delay in election may make it unjust that the
     right to elect should continue. For this reason
     the right to rescission for misrepresentation
     in general must be promptly exercised. (See
     Indian Contract and Specific Relief Acts,
     Pollock and Mulla, 11th Edn., Vol. I, pp. 269-
     70.)”


    Section 19A deals with there being no free consent

on account of the consent of a party being obtained by

undue influence. The said vitiating factor also, does

not result in a void agreement but a voidable contract.

Section 14, defining ‘free consent’, provides that

consent is said to be free, when it is not caused by

mistake, subject to the provisions of Sections 20, 21

and 22, after referring to the other four aspects,

which detract from free consent. We notice what Section

20 provides. Section 20 declares that where both the

parties to an agreement are under a mistake as to a

matter   of   fact   essential   to   the   agreement,   the

agreement is void. We may observe that this again is a

case of an agreement, which is declared void within the

meaning of Section 10, apart from Sections 24 to 30.

Section 21 provides that a mistake as to any law in

force in India, would not make the contract voidable.

Thus, while Section 10 sets out the core element for
                            69
an agreement to become a contract, the effect of non-

conformity varies.   Therefore, the lack of competency

and absence of sound mind completely detract from the

formation of a ‘contract’.    The absence of free consent

arising    from      coercion,      undue     influence,

misrepresentation and even fraud will, however, result

in an agreement which is a ‘contract’ though voidable

(see Sections 19 and 19A of the Contract Act).        The

effect of mistake, is again spelt out in Section 22,

insofar as it provides that a contract is not voidable

merely because one of the parties consented to the

contract, labouring under a mistake as to a matter of

fact. Section 37 comes under Chapter IV which deals

with performance of contracts and of contracts which

must be performed. Section 37 reads:

     “37. Obligation of parties to contract. -The
     parties to a contract must either perform, or
     offer to perform, their respective promises,
     unless such performance is dispensed with or
     excused under the provisions of this Act, or
     of any other law.
         Promises bind the representatives of the
     promisors in case of the death of such
     promisors   before   performance,   unless   a
     contrary intention appears from the contract.”




                             70
58. We     have   noticed     that     in   the      case      of    fraud,

misrepresentation or coercion, the person whose consent

is procured on the said basis, may insist that the

contract    be    performed    and     that    he    be     put     in   the

position,    in    which    he    could       have    been,         if   the

representation had not been made. In this context, we

may notice, Section 64 of the Contract Act:

       “64. Consequences of rescission of a voidable
      contract. -When a person at whose option a
      contract is voidable rescinds it, the other
      party thereto need not perform any promise
      therein contained in which he is the promisor.
      The party rescinding a voidable contract shall,
      if he had received any benefit thereunder from
      another party to such contract, restore such
      benefit, so far as may be, to the person from
      whom it was received.”


59. As to what would happen, if an agreement is
discovered to be void or becomes void, is provided in

Section 65. It declares that when such an eventuality

takes place, any person, who has, under such agreement

or   contract,     received      any   advantage,         is    bound     to

restore it to the person from whom he has received it

or make compensation for the same. In the context of

Section 65, we may notice the nexus with Section 2(j)

of the Contract Act. Section 2(j), as we have noticed,

                                  71
provides     that,     when   the       contract   ceases    to   be

enforceable, it becomes void. Thus, what may be an

agreement and which fulfils the requirement that it is

enforceable and, therefore, becomes a contract, can

upon    it   ceasing    to    be    enforceable,    become    void.

However, here we must notice the view expressed by the

Privy Council in the Judgement reported in Mahanth

Singh v. U Ba Yi23. Therein the Court, inter alia, held

as follows:

        “A still more startling result, however, is
       brought about on this construction if s.2(j) is
       read with s.65 of the Indian Contract Act, since
       in   such   a   case   not  only   would   every
       unenforceable contract become void but each
       party would be under the obligation of restoring
       or   making   compensation   for   any   benefit
       received, no matter how much had been done
       towards the performance by either party.
        But it is not necessary to adopt a construction
       leading to such surprising results.
        The solution is, in their Lordships’ view, to
        be found in the wording of s.2(j) itself. Not
        every unenforceable contract is declared void,
        but only those unenforceable by law, and those
        words mean not unenforceable by reason of some
        procedural regulation, but unenforceable by
        the substantive law. For example, a contract
        which was from its inception illegal, such as
        a contract with an alien enemy, would be
        avoided by s.2(g), and one which became illegal
        in the course of its performance, such as a
        contract with one who had been an alien friend
        but later became an alien enemy, would be
23
     AIR 1939 PC 110
                                   72
       avoided by s.2(j). A mere failure to sue within
       the   time   specified  by   the   statute   of
       limitations or an inability to sue by reason
       of the provisions of one of the Orders under
       the Civil Procedure Code would not cause a
       contract to become void.”


60. A Full Bench of the Allahabad High Court, while
dealing     with    the   effect    of   inclusion   of    non-

transferable       occupancy   rights,    along   with    other

properties, which were transferable in a registered

mortgage deed and, after referring to Section 23 of the

Contract Act, held, in Dip Narain Singh v. Nageshar

Prasad and another24, inter alia, as follows:

       “There is a clear distinction between an
       agreement which may be forbidden by law and one
       which is merely declared to be void. In the
       former case the legislature penalises it or
       prohibits it. In the latter case, it merely
       refuses to give effect to it. If a void
       contract has been carried out and consideration
       has passed, the promisor may not in equity be
       allowed to go back upon it without restoring
       the benefit which he has received. But if the
       promise comes to court to enforce it he would
       receive no help from a court of law. As pointed
       out above, the transfer of an occupancy tenancy
       is not actually forbidden by law but is
       declared to be void.”
                                  (Emphasis supplied)




24
     AIR 1930 ALL 1 (FB) / 1929 SCC OnLine ALL 1
                               73
61. To the extent that N.N. Global (supra) proceeds on
the basis that the Stamp Act is a fiscal enactment and

the object is to raise revenue, there may not be any

serious room for objection.

    As far as the finding in paragraph-28 of N.N.

Global (supra) that the decision in SMS Tea Estates

(supra) does not lay down the correct law, when it

holds that an Arbitration Agreement, in an unstamped

commercial     contract,    cannot       be   acted   upon   or   is

rendered unenforceable, we are of the view that the

finding in N.N. Global (supra) does not appear to be

correct. A perusal of paragraph-29 would show that the

Court in N.N. Global (supra) proceeded on the basis

that the Arbitration Agreement, being an independent

contract is not chargeable to payment of stamp duty and

it would not      invalidate the Arbitration            Clause or

render it unenforceable, since it had an independent

existence of its own, cannot hold good in view of the

admitted     position    before     us    that   an   Arbitration

Agreement, in its own right, is exigible to stamp duty.

The whole premise of the Court in N.N. Global (supra)

being   that    the     Arbitration      Agreement,    not   being
                               74
exigible to duty and it having a separate existence,

the   commercial    contract    in    which   the    Arbitration

Agreement is contained, being unstamped, would not

impact the Arbitration Agreement, cannot hold good. The

reasoning in N.N. Global (supra) in paragraph-32, for

disapproving   of    Garware        (supra)   in    paragraph-22

thereof, that the Arbitration Clause would be non-

existent in law and unenforceable till the stamp duty

in adjudicated and paid on the substantive contract,

is again on the premise that the Arbitration Agreement

is a separate agreement under the Stamp Act, which is

not exigible to stamp duty, which we have found is not

the case in law. In this regard, we may refer to Article

5 of the Stamp Act:

       Description                  of Proper    Stamp-
       Instrument                      duty
       [5.     AGREEMENT            OR Two annas.
       MEMORANDUM     OF            AN
       AGREEMENT—

         (a)   if   relating   to Subject   to   a
               the sale of a bill maximum of ten
               of exchange;       rupees, one anna

         (b)   if   relating  to       for every Rs.
               the sale of a           10,000 or part
               Government              thereof of the
               security or share       value  of  the
               in             an

                               75
              incorporated     security       or
              company or other share.
              body corporate;

        (c)   if not otherwise
              provided for     Eight annas.

             Exemptions
      Agreement or memorandum
      of agreement—
           (a) for or relating
      to the sale of goods or
      merchandise exclusively,
      not being a NOTE OR
      MEMORANDUM     chargeable
      under No. 43;
           (b) made in the form
      of tenders to the Central
      Government     for     or
      relating to any loan;

                                   (Emphasis supplied)


62. While the Stamp Act is a fiscal enactment intended
to raise revenue, it is a law, which is meant to have

teeth. The point of time, at which the stamp duty is

to be paid is expressly provided for in Section 17 of

the Stamp Act. There cannot be any gainsaying, that

call it a fiscal enactment, it is intended that it is

to be implemented with full vigour. The duty of a Court

must be to adopt an interpretation which results in the

enforcement of the law, rather than allowing the law

to be flouted with impunity. Once this principle is

                          76
borne in mind, the task of the Court becomes less

difficult. The law, as contained in Section 33 read

with Section 35 of the Stamp Act, would result in the

following conclusions:

    i.   Every person having, by law or consent of

         parties, the authority to receive evidence,

         before whom, an instrument is produced, is

         duty-bound to immediately impound the same.

         This is upon his forming the opinion that the

         instrument is not duly stamped. In a case,

         where the instrument does not bear any stamp

         at all, when it is exigible to stamp duty,

         there can be little difficulty in the person

         forming    the     opinion      that    it   is   not    duly

         stamped. No doubt, under Section 33(2), in

         cases of ambiguity, the person shall examine

         the instrument to arrive at the liability.

         Apart     from    a   person      having     authority     to

         receive    evidence,          which,   no    doubt,     would

         include    a     court    and    an    Arbitrator,      every

         person In-charge of a Public Office, before

         whom, such instrument is produced or comes in

                                  77
    the performance of his functions, has the duty

    to impound the unstamped or insufficiently

    stamped document, arises. This is no doubt

    after      ‘examining’      the     instrument        and

    ascertaining as to whether the instrument was

    stamped    as    required   when   the    document    was

    executed    or     first    executed      [See    Section

    33(2)].     One exception in Section 33 is an

    Officer of the Police. In other words, the

    Officer of the Police has no authority to

    impound an unstamped or insufficiently stamped

    document    produced     before    him.   No     doubt,   a

    Criminal Court is not under compulsion vide

    the proviso. Section 33, no doubt, authorises

    delegation of power.

ii. Under Section 35, the Law-Giver has disabled

    the admission in evidence of an instrument not

    stamped or insufficiently stamped, for any

    purpose. This would include even a collateral

    purpose. This is in stark contrast with a

    document, which is compulsorily registerable

    but which is not registered. Under Section 49
 78
of the Registration Act, 1908, an unregistered

document may be used for proving a collateral

transaction. Even this is impermissible, if

the document is not stamped or insufficiently

stamped.    Section           35    further      proceeds   to

declare      that        such        an       unstamped     or

insufficiently stamped document shall not be

acted upon. It is important to juxtapose the

embargo    cast     on    an       unstamped     document   as

aforesaid with Section 2(h) of the Contract

Act. Section 2(h) of the Contract Act provides

that an agreement, which is enforceable in law

is   a    contract       whereas         Section    2(g),   an

agreement not enforceable is void. The words

‘enforceable in law’ or ‘not enforceable in

law’, understood in the context of Sections 33

and 35 of the Stamp Act, would mean that upon

there being an occasion, which necessitates

one of the parties to the agreement having to

enforce the same through recourse to sanctions

available     in     law,          the    same     should   be

vouchsafed to him. Ordinarily, agreements are

                         79
enforced    through          actions      in     Civil    Courts.

Remedies     may        be         sought       before        Public

Authorities. Both the Civil Courts and the

Public Authorities are tabooed from giving

effect to an unstamped instrument. Section 33

does not give a choice to the person, who has

authority by law, or with consent, to take

evidence, or to any Public Officer, but to

impound     the     agreement.           The     unstamped       or

insufficiently stamped document cannot be used

as   evidence     for        any    purpose.      It     would    be

inconceivable, as to how, it could be in the

same    breath,        be     found      that     an    unstamped

document is yet enforceable in law or that it

is not enforceable in law.                      It is another

matter that the parties may act upon it. Goods

or services may change hands, for instance,

under   a   document,            which    may     be    otherwise

exigible    to    stamp          duty.   What     is,    however,

relevant is that the State will not extend its

protection,       by        appropriate         sanctions.       The

rights,     which       would        otherwise         have    been

                            80
           available, had the agreement been stamped,

           would remain frozen or rather they would not

           exist. We are further reinforced in our view,

           therefore, that the views expressed by this

           Court   in   Garware      (supra)   in   paragraph-22,

           following SMS Tea Estates (supra), represent

           the correct position in law.

      iii. Next, we must pass on to the correctness of

           the views expressed in paragraph-29 of Garware

           (supra). The Court drew upon the Judgment in

           United India Insurance Company Limited and

           another v. Hyundai Engineering & Construction

           Company Limited and others25.


63. Justice Hrishikesh Roy in paragraph-84 of his draft
Judgement    finds      that   in    paragraph-29    in   Garware

(supra), this Court relied on United India Insurance

Company Limited v. Hyundai Engineering and Construction

Company Limited26. Our learned Brother further notes in

paragraph-84.1 that in Hyundai (supra), the issue of



25
     (2018) 17 SCC 607
26
     (2018) 17 SCC 607
                                81
stamping was not in consideration and the question was

whether the matter fell within excepted matter as the

Arbitration Clause was dependant on whether the insurer

accepted    liability.   Justice   Hrishikesh   Roy   further

finds that the approach in Garware (supra) in relying

upon Hyundai (supra) was incorrect. This is as Hyundai

(supra) has nothing to do with stamping and should have

been distinguished. Our learned Brother notices the

contention of the learned Amicus that Hyundai (supra)

relied on Oriental Insurance Company v. Narbheram Power

and Steel Private Limited27, in which case, the Court

did not have occasion to interpret Section 11(6)(a) of

the Act.

64. It is true that in Hyundai (supra), this Court was
not dealing with the impact of the Stamp Act. The Court

was dealing rather with the issue as to the effect of

the Clause, in which it was agreed that there would be

no arbitration, if the insurer disputed or did not

accept liability under or irrespective of the policy.

In the context of the said Clause, this Court, in



27
     (2018) 6 SCC 534
                             82
Hyundai (supra), went on to hold, inter alia, that the

denial of the plea about its liability by the insurer,

rendered    the   ‘making    of     the   Arbitration     Clause

ineffective and incapable of being enforced, if not

non-existent’.    No doubt, in paragraph-29 of Garware

(supra), this Court found that ‘likewise in the facts

of the present case, it is clear that the Arbitration

Clause, i.e., contained in the sub-contract, would not

exist as a ‘matter of law’ until the sub-contract is

duly stamped as has been held by us above’. Therefore,

the rationale for finding that an Arbitration Agreement

in an unstamped sub-contract would not               exist,   was

already furnished in paragraph-22. This Court was only

drawing     support   from    Hyundai      (supra)      for   the

proposition about non-existence of the instrument ‘in

law’. While, Hyundai (supra) did not relate to the

Stamp Act, and even, removing the reference to Hyundai

(supra), the finding about the non-existence of an

unstamped    agreement,     would   be    supportable    on   the

reasoning that what is contemplated in Section 11(6)(a)

is no mere facial existence or existence in fact but

also existence in law.

                              83
65. This Court in Garware (supra) took the view that
unless the sub contract was stamped, the arbitration

clause contained therein would not exist as a matter

of law. This finding has been rendered apparently on

the basis of the impact of the amendment leading to the

insertion of      Section 11(6A). The         Court     in   Garware

(supra) had in fact after setting out the law prior to

the amendment based on the Two Hundred and Forty-Sixth

Report    of   the   Law    Commission   of     India    found    in

paragraph-19 that the Law Commission Report did not

mention about SMS Tea Estates (supra). It is further

found that it is for the very good reason that the

court does not while deciding an application under

Section 11 decide any preliminary issue. The Court

further   found      that   it   was   giving    effect      to   the

provisions of a mandatory enactment, which enjoins upon

the Court, under the provisions of the Stamp Act, to

first impound the agreement, and if only the penalty

and the duty is paid thereafter, to act upon it. The

Court had also found that it was not possible to

bifurcate the arbitration clause.          We would find that

as found by       us, being unstamped or insufficiently

                                 84
stamped, the agreement would not be enforceable till

it is ‘validated’ which is permissible only in the

manner provided in the Stamp Act and till then it would

not exist ‘in law’.

66. In the context of Article 136 of the Limitation
Act,    1963,   a   Bench   of    three   learned   Judges   in

Dr. Chiranji Lal (D) by Lrs. v. Hari Das (D) by Lrs.28

had to deal with the argument that a Final Decree for

partition passed on 07.08.1981 became enforceable only

on 25.05.1982, on which day the Decree came to be

engrossed with stamp papers. Under Article 136, the

period of twelve years begins to run when the ‘Decree

or Order’ becomes ‘enforceable’, inter alia. The Court,

inter alia, held as follows:

           “23. Such    an   interpretation   is   not
         permissible having regard to the object and
         scheme of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899. The
         Stamp Act is a fiscal measure enacted with an
         object to secure revenue for the State on
         certain classes of instruments. It is not
         enacted to arm a litigant with a weapon of
         technicality to meet the case of his
         opponent. The stringent provisions of the Act
         are conceived in the interest of the Revenue.
         Once that object is secured according to law,

28
     (2005) 10 SCC 746
                                 85
the party staking his claim on the instrument
will not be defeated on the ground of initial
defect in the instrument (Hindustan Steel
Ltd. v. Dilip Construction Co. [(1969) 1 SCC
597]). …”

           xxx           xxx     xxx

25. The engrossment of the final decree in a
suit for partition would relate back to the
date of the decree. The beginning of the
period of limitation for executing such a
decree cannot be made to depend upon date of
the engrossment of such a decree on the stamp
paper. The date of furnishing of stamp paper
is an uncertain act, within the domain,
purview and control of a party. No date or
period is fixed for furnishing stamp papers.
No rule has been shown to us requiring the
Court to call upon or give any time for
furnishing of stamp paper. A party by his own
act of not furnishing stamp paper cannot stop
the running of period of limitation. None can
take advantage of his own wrong. The
proposition that period of limitation would
remain   suspended    till   stamp  paper   is
furnished and decree engrossed thereupon and
only thereafter the period of twelve years
will begin to run would lead to absurdity.
In Yeswant     Deorao     Deshmukh v. Walchand
Ramchand Kothari [1950 SCC 766 : 1950 SCR 852
: AIR 1951 SC 16] it was said that the payment
of court fee on the amount found due was
entirely in the power of the decree-holder
and there was nothing to prevent him from
paying it then and there; it was a decree
capable of execution from the very date it
was passed.

                    86
         26. Rules of limitation are meant to see
       that parties do not resort to dilatory
       tactics, but seek their remedy promptly. As
       above noted, there is no statutory provision
       prescribing a time-limit for furnishing of
       the stamp paper for engrossing the decree or
       time-limit for engrossment of the decree on
       stamp paper and there is no statutory
       obligation on the court passing the decree to
       direct the parties to furnish the stamp paper
       for engrossing the decree. In the present
       case the Court has not passed an order
       directing the parties to furnish the stamp
       papers for the purpose of engrossing the
       decree. Merely because there is no direction
       by the Court to furnish the stamp papers for
       engrossing of the decree or there is no time-
       limit fixed by law, does not mean that the
       party can furnish stamp papers at its sweet
       will and claim that the period of limitation
       provided under Article 136 of the Act would
       start only thereafter as and when the decree
       is engrossed thereupon. The starting of
       period of limitation for execution of a
       partition decree cannot be made contingent
       upon the engrossment of the decree on the
       stamp paper. …”
                                    (Emphasis supplied)

67.   However, the said view must be understood in the

context of the Law of Limitation standing in the peril

of being wholly defeated by ‘enforceability’ of a

Decree or Order within the meaning of Article 136,

being made dependant on an act of volition of a party

                          87
to pay the requisite stamp duty. Here, in the case

before us, we are concerned with the duty of a Court,

inter alia, under Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act

and   its   impact    on       an    unstamped    or    insufficiently

stamped agreement containing an Arbitration Clause.

This is apart from the meaning to be attributed to the

words    ‘existence       of    an    Arbitration       Agreement’    in

Section     11(6A)   of    the      Act.   We    have   explained    the

concept of ‘enforceability’ in the context of the

Contract Act. What is closer to the facts is the concept

of enforceability or rather the lack of enforceability

resulting in the voidness of the contract in the sense

explained by us.


K.    THE STAMP ACT – WHETHER A PROCEDURAL LAW?

68. In this context, it will be profitable to notice
the following discussion from the work                     Salmond on

Jurisprudence, Twelfth Edition. Dealing with Law of

Procedure, it is stated:

        “What, then, is the true nature of the
        distinction? The law of procedure may be
        defined as that branch of the law which governs
        the process of litigation. It is the law of
        actions- jus quod ad actiones pertinent-using
        the term action in a wide sense to include all
        legal proceedings, civil or criminal. All the

                                     88
     residue is substantive law, and relates, not
     to the process of litigation, but to its
     purposes and subject-matter. Substantive law
     is concerned with tPhe ends which the
     administration of justice seeks; procedural
     law deals with the means and instruments by
     which those ends are to be attained. The latter
     regulates the conduct and relations of courts
     and litigants in respect of the litigation
     itself; the former determines their conduct and
     relations in respect of the matters litigated.”
                                 (Emphasis supplied)


69. The Stamp Act, while it may be a fiscal measure,
it may not fall within the fold of procedural law. The

mere fact that Sections 33 and 35 may apply at a stage,

when the person approaches a Court, inter alia, would

not mean that the Stamp Act, providing for a duty on

the executants to stamp the instrument at the point of

time, as declared in Section 17, and what is more,

penalising a deviation under Section 62, falls within

the domain of procedural law.    Pertinently, we may, in

the Fourteenth Edition of      The Indian   Contract and

Specific Relief Acts by Pollock and Mulla, note as

follows:

     “Unenforceable Contracts

         Unenforceable contracts are valid in all
     respects, but may not be sued upon by the
     parties. Such disability may arise for want of

                          89
      registration; or because the time prescribed
      for filing the suit has expired; or because the
      plaintiff firm has not been registered; or the
      document or instrument does not bear the
      requisite stamp duty; or because the lender of
      money does not possess a licence under money-
      lending laws.”
                                 (Emphasis supplied)


70. We   would       find   that     an     agreement,      which    is

unenforceable on account of a substantive law, which

would include the Stamp Act, would not be a contract,

applying Section 2(h) of the Contract Act. It is only

if an agreement is enforceable, that it would become a

contract. It is only a ‘contract’, which would be the

‘Arbitration     Agreement’,        which    is   contemplated       in

Section 11(6A) of the Act. It may not be apposite to

merely describe an unstamped Arbitration Agreement as

a ‘curable defect’. As long it remains an unstamped

instrument,     it   cannot    be   taken     notice   of    for    any

purpose, as contemplated in Section 35 of the Stamp

Act. It remains unenforceable. Section 17 declares the

time at which an instrument, executed in India, must

be   stamped.    The    said   provision       contemplates         that

stamping of such an instrument must take place before

or at the time of the execution of document. No Public

                                90
Officer, nor   Court nor Arbitrator, can           permit any

person to ask them to act upon it or receive it as

evidence. In law, it is bereft of life. It is ‘not

enforceable in law’. In the said sense, it also cannot

exist in law. It would be void. Our view in this regard

that voidness is conflated to unenforceability receives

fortification from Section 2(j) of the Contract Act

which renders a contract which ceases to be enforceable

void.

71. What Section 11(6A) contemplates is a contract and
it is not an agreement which cannot be treated as a

contract.   This   is   despite   the   use   of   the   words

‘arbitration agreement’ in Section 11(6A). In other

words, contract must conform to Section 7 of the Act.

It must also, needless to say, fulfil the requirements

of the Contract Act.

72. A voidable contract within the meaning of Section
19 and 19A, undoubtedly stands in stark contrast to

void contracts. However, even in the categories of void

contracts as for instance, Section 20 of the Contract

Act provides that if on a material point, the parties

were mistaken, the contract would be void. If in a
                            91
given case where this is the contention raised by a

party   in   a   proceeding   under     Section    11   when    the

agreement otherwise satisfies the requirement of a

contract to make it exist as an Arbitration Agreement,

then, the Court would be justified in treating the

agreement as one which exists and leave it open to the

Arbitrator to go into the question, which can be done

after the pleadings are laid and evidence is unfolded

before him. When an Arbitration Agreement is sought to

be brought under the cloud on the basis that it is a

voidable contract which has been avoided, again it may

be a matter where the principle of Kompetenz-Kompetenz

may be apposite and again the court under Section 11

would be justified in proceeding on the basis that an

arbitration      agreement    exists.      The    question     must

undoubtedly      be   approached    from   the    standpoint     of

advancing the sublime cause of speedy commencement,

progress and conclusion of arbitration. When Parliament

intervened by amending the Act, while in Section 8, it

has employed the words prima facie, it has used the

word ‘examine’ to ascertain about the existence of an

arbitration agreement in Section 11 (6A). Likewise, in

                               92
Section 8 the law giver has used the word ‘valid’ which

is missing in Section 11(6A). Can it be said that an

invalid agreement can be said to exist in law for the

purpose of Section 11(6A)?

73. What is an invalid document or agreement? It is an
expression which is associated and often conflated with

the word void. We have already noticed Section 20 as

an instance where a common mistake of the parties on a

material subject renders the agreement void. We have

also noticed that in view of the very nature of the

voidness, a court under Section 11, may allow the

application under Section 11 when shelter is taken

under Section 20 of the Contract Act by the respondent.

It would turn upon the facts.           Coming to invalidity, a

contract would be invalid as for instance if it is

executed   by   a   person    of   unsound   mind.     This   would

equally be the case where it is found that one of the

parties was a minor.         As far as the word ‘invalid’ is

concerned, it has different shades of meaning. In the

context    of   a   contract,      we   notice   the    following




                                93
statement in a judgment of the High Court of Karnataka

reported in Imambi v. Khaja Hussain alias Khajasab29:

       “In the context that the words are used the
       meaning is to be as laid down in Jones v. Bank
       of Gumming as follows: -
       “The word “invalid” as applied to a contract
       does not always mean an absolute nullity, for
       a contract may be so imperfect as not to be
       enforceable, but not such an absolute nullity
       that it cannot be perfected.”
       (Vide Words & Phrases – Permanent Edition –
       West Publishing Co. Volume 22A)”


74. The aforesaid statement appears apposite in the
context     of   an    instrument        which    is    unstamped       or

insufficiently stamped. This is for the reason that on

the one hand as long as it is not stamped or is

insufficiently        stamped,     it    is     both   liable    to     be

impounded under Section 33 of the Stamp Act and it

cannot be used as evidence or registered. This is apart

from the unambiguous bar against ‘acting upon’ such an

instrument.      On   the    other      hand,    if    after    such    an

instrument is impounded and duty and penalty is paid

and    a   certificate      is   endorsed       upon   it   within     the

meaning of Section 42(2) signals that the instrument


29
     AIR 1988 Karnataka 51
                                  94
regains life, the bar in Section 35 of the Stamp Act

is removed permanently. Equally, under Section 36 in

the case of an instrument (not secondary evidence of

the instrument) which is allowed to be let in evidence

without objection, then it would qualify as evidence

founding a right. But this is an exception to the rule

which is found in Section 35 of the Stamp Act.        Thus,

an   unstamped   or   insufficiently   stamped   instrument

represents a case of an agreement which not being

enforceable, in the sense that the sanctions in law

through a civil action is impermissible, is in the said

sense, invalid. It is not invalid or void in the sense

of it being still born or null and void in the sense

that life cannot be poured into it. We may sum up. An

agreement which is unstamped or insufficiently stamped

is not enforceable, as long as it remains in the said

condition. Such an instrument would be void as being

not enforceable [See Section 2(g) of the Contract Act].

It would not in the said sense exist in law. It can be

“validated” by only the process contemplated in Section

33 and other provisions of the Stamp Act. We find the

expression ‘validation’ used in the decision of this

                            95
Court in Hariom Agrawal v. Prakash Chand Malviya30 which

we shall refer to in greater detail later.                    This

necessarily means that the court would not view it as

enforceable, and therefore, existing in law. In the

sense explained, it would not be found as ‘not void’

and therefore ‘not invalid’. Thus, in the context of

the Act, the Stamp Act and the Contract Act, we are of

the view that the opinion of this Court in SMS Tea

Estates    (supra),     in   this    regard    as   reiterated   in

Garware (supra) and approved in Vidya Drolia (supra)

is correct.

75. Section 11(6A) cannot be understood as merely
predicating    for    an     Arbitration      Agreement   existing

literally. This means that the mere existence of the

arbitration agreement for all intents and purposes on

the exterior purporting to project a contract duly

executed, may in certain situations, be insufficient

under Section 11. If for reasons such as it being

unstamped when it is clearly required to be stamped,

then it cannot be said to be a case where the agreement



30
     (2007) 8 SCC 514
                                96
exists for it would be no existence in law. While we

agree, the Court must be careful in selecting contracts

where an arbitration agreement which is produced is not

to be acted upon for the reason that it does not exist

in law, all we hold is that an Arbitration Agreement,

which is unstamped, does not exist and an unstamped

contract, containing an Arbitration Agreement, would

not exist as it has no existence in law.



  L. SECTION 7 OF THE ACT – ITS IMPACT


76. Our learned Brother, Justice Hrishikesh Roy, is
right in noticing that Section 7 of the Act provides

for what an Arbitration Agreement means for the purpose

of Part I. However, with great respect, we express our

inability to agree that a plain reading of Section 7

of the Act, would make it clear that an Arbitration

Agreement can be even non-contractual. For the purpose

of clarity, we may reproduce Section 7(1) of the Act

at this juncture:


        “7(1) Arbitration agreement.(1) In this
        Part, “arbitration agreement” means an
        agreement by the parties to submit to

                          97
        arbitration all or certain disputes which
        have arisen or which may arise between them
        in respect of a defined legal relationship,
        whether contractual or not.”
                                (Emphasis supplied)

77. We are inclined to hold that what Section 7(1)
contemplates is an Arbitration Agreement. We are also

inclined to think that what the Law-Giver has intended

to convey is that under the Arbitration Agreement, the

parties must submit disputes, which have arisen or

which may arise between them. The disputes may have

arisen or may arise in respect of a defined legal

relationship. The defined legal relationship, in turn,

can be either contractual or otherwise. Therefore, what

can give rise to disputes can be a legal relationship,

which is non-contractual. The legal relationship may

arise from out of a Statute. It may arise in relation

to a tort but an Arbitration Agreement must always mean

an agreement. It is really a contract which is intended

as an agreement enforceable by law is a contract. An

Arbitration Agreement may be a Clause in an agreement

providing for Arbitration. It may be a separate or a

standalone agreement [Section 7(2) of the Act]. An

Arbitration Agreement must be in writing [See Section

                          98
7(3) of the Act]. As to what all are comprehended within

the requirement that the Arbitration Agreement must be

in writing, is set out in Sections 7(4)(a) to 7(4)(c).

It includes a document which is signed by the parties

[See Section 7(4)(a)]. An Arbitration Agreement would

be treated as contained in writing, if there is an

exchange of letters, telex, telegrams or other means

of     telecommunications,           including,       communications

through electronic means which provide a record of the

agreement [See Section 7(4)(b)]. Next, we may notice

that   an   Arbitration        Agreement      will    be   treated     as

contained    in     writing,    if    there    is    an    exchange   of

statements     of    claims     and      defence,    in    which,     the

existence of the agreement is alleged by a party and

not denied by the other [See Section 7(4)(c)]. Finally,

Section 7(5) contemplates an Arbitration Agreement by

incorporation, viz., a reference in a contract to a

document     containing       an     Arbitration      Clause,    would

constitute an Arbitration Agreement, if the contract

is in writing and the reference is such as to make that

Arbitration Clause part of the contract. The true scope

of   Section   7(5)     of    the     Act   has     been   elaborately

                                    99
considered in M.R. Engineers & Contractors Private

Limited v. Som Datt Builders Limited31.

78. Section     3(a)    of    the    Stamp       Act,   no   doubt,

contemplates that every instrument mentioned in the

Schedule, which, not having been previously executed

by any person, is executed in India on or after the

first day of July, 1899, is chargeable with duty.

Clause (c) of Section 3 also contemplates ‘execution’

of a document out of India, being chargeable with duty.

Section 17 of the Stamp Act also contemplates that in

respect of documents executed in India, they shall be

stamped before or at the time of execution. Justice

Hrishikesh     Roy   would    reason      that    an    Arbitration

Agreement, as defined in Section 7 of the Act, need not

be an instrument chargeable to stamp duty as stamp duty

is payable under the Stamp Act only on instruments,

which    are   executed.     The   word   ‘executed’      has   been

defined in the Stamp Act as meaning ‘signed’.

79. Section 7(3)(b) of the Act contemplates that an
exchange of letters, telex, telegrams or other means



31
     (2009) 7 SCC 696
                               100
of telecommunication, including communication through

electronic   means,   which    provide   a   record   of   the

agreement, would constitute an Arbitration Agreement

in writing within the meaning of Section 7(3) of the

Act. We may notice that the proviso (c) to Section 35

of the Stamp Act reads as follows:

             “(c) Where a contract or agreement of
             any kind is effected by correspondence
             consisting of two or more letters and
             any one of the letters bears the proper
             stamp, the contract or agreement shall
             be deemed to be duly stamped;”

80. Thus, the Stamp Act does contemplate a contract or
agreement being formed through correspondence through

two or more letters. It then suffices that any one of

the letters bears the proper stamp. Even proceeding on

the basis that an Arbitration Agreement is contained

in letters and it is signed and, therefore, executed

within the meaning of the Stamp Act, then, it would

fall within the four corners of Sections 33 and 35 of

the Stamp Act.

81. We do notice that a Bench of two learned Judges
have, in the Judgment reported in Govind Rubber Limited




                              101
v. Louids Dreyfus Commodities Asia Private Limited32,

had this to say about the need for an Arbitration

Agreement being signed:


           “15. A perusal of the aforesaid provisions
           would show that in order to constitute an
           arbitration agreement, it need not be
           signed by all the parties. Section 7(3) of
           the Act provides that the arbitration
           agreement shall be in writing, which is a
           mandatory requirement. Section 7(4) states
           that the arbitration agreement shall be in
           writing, if it is a document signed by all
           the parties. But a perusal of clauses (b)
           and (c) of Section 7(4) would show that a
           written document which may not be signed by
           the parties even then it can be arbitration
           agreement. Section 7(4)(b) provides that an
           arbitration agreement can be culled out
           from an exchange of letters, telex,
           telegrams     or     other     means     of
           telecommunication which provide a record of
           the agreement.
           16. On reading the provisions it can safely
           be concluded that an arbitration agreement
           even though in writing need not be signed
           by the parties if the record of agreement
           is provided by exchange of letters, telex,
           telegrams     or     other      means     of
           telecommunication.      Section      7(4)(c)
           provides that there can be an arbitration
           agreement in the exchange of statements of
           claims and defence in which the existence
           of the agreement is alleged by one party
           and not denied by the other. If it can be
           prima facie shown that the parties are at
           ad idem, then the mere fact of one party
32
     (2015) 13 SCC 477
                            102
           not signing the agreement cannot absolve
           him from the liability under the agreement.
           In the present day of e-commerce, in cases
           of internet purchases, tele purchases,
           ticket booking on internet and in standard
           forms of contract, terms and conditions are
           agreed upon. In such agreements, if the
           identity of the parties is established, and
           there is a record of agreement it becomes
           an arbitration agreement if there is an
           arbitration clause showing ad idem between
           the parties. Therefore, signature is not a
           formal requirement under Section 7(4)(b) or
           7(4)(c) or under Section 7(5) of the Act.”


82. When    it   comes   to    Section    7(4)(c),   what    is

constituted as an Arbitration Agreement as being in

writing is an exchange of Statement of Claims and

Defence, wherein the existence of an agreement is

alleged by one party and not denied by another. There

must however be ‘an agreement’, the allegation of the

existence of which remains unrefuted. Since, Section

7(1) defines an arbitration agreement to be one, under

which, parties submit ‘all’ or ‘certain disputes’,

which have arisen or will arise, such an agreement must

be alleged to exist and the allegation must remain

undenied. The formation of           such an agreement must

necessarily      be   tested    with     reference   to     the



                               103
indispensable     requirements,                   such    as,    competency    to

contract and presence of sound mind.

83. All   that        we        are     holding          is,    an   Arbitration

Agreement must satisfy the requirements in Section 7(1)

and,   therefore,          it    must        be    an    agreement.     Sans   an

agreement, there cannot be a reference to arbitration.

While Justice Hrishikesh Roy is right in holding that

Section   10     of    the        Contract           Act       recognises     oral

agreements and that a written agreement is a sine qua

non for a valid Arbitration Agreement, Section 10 of

the Contract Act, it must be noticed, in the second

part, provides that nothing contained in the first

part, would affect any law, which, inter alia, requires

that any contract is required to be made in writing.

Section   7(3)    of        the        Act        which    insists     that    an

arbitration agreement must be in writing harmonises

with Section 10 of the Contract Act.

84. We    would       think           that    whenever          an   Arbitration

Agreement, as defined in Section 7 of the Act, also

attracts stamp duty under the Stamp Act, then, the

provisions of Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act would

come into play. As held in SMS Tea Estates Private
                                        104
Limited (supra), if an Arbitration Clause constitutes

the Arbitration Agreement and the instrument, viz., the

instrument or contract, in which the Arbitration Clause

is   contained,    is      unstamped,      when   it   is   otherwise

exigible to stamp duty, then, the provisions of Section

33 as also Section 35 of the Stamp Act would operate.

The court acting under Section (11) of the Act is not

free to disregard their mandate.

85. An Arbitration Agreement, may be a Clause in an
instrument, which attracts stamp duty. In such a case,

the Court, acting under Section 11, is bound to act

under Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act, if the

instrument is not stamped or insufficiently stamped.

If an Arbitration Agreement is a standalone agreement

and which attracts duty under the Stamp Act, then also,

the same position obtains.



M.   THE ALTERNATIVE PERSPECTIVE

86. In     Garware      (supra),     the     Court     referred    to

paragraph-59 of Duro Felguera (supra) to find that, the

Court in the said case, proceeded on the basis that the

mischief    that     was    sought    to    be    remedied    by   the

                                105
insertion of Section 11(6A), was as contained in SBP

(supra)    and   National   Insurance   (supra).     We   must,

however,    notice   that   in   paragraph-18   of    Garware

(supra), the Court referred to paragraph-12 of SBP

(supra), which we have already noticed and, thereafter,

the Court went on to hold, inter alia, as follows:


     “19. It will be seen that neither in the
     Statement of Objects and Reasons nor in the Law
     Commission Report is there any mention of SMS
     Tea     Estates [SMS     Tea    Estates     (P)
     Ltd. v. Chandmari Tea Co. (P) Ltd., (2011) 14
     SCC 66 : (2012) 4 SCC (Civ) 777] . This is for
     the very good reason that the Supreme Court or
     the High Court, while deciding a Section 11
     application, does not, in any manner, decide
     any preliminary question that arises between
     the parties. The Supreme Court or the High
     Court is only giving effect to the provisions
     of a mandatory enactment which, no doubt, is
     to protect revenue. SMS Tea Estates [SMS Tea
     Estates (P) Ltd. v. Chandmari Tea Co. (P) Ltd.,
     (2011) 14 SCC 66 : (2012) 4 SCC (Civ) 777] has
     taken account of the mandatory provisions
     contained in the Stamp Act and held them
     applicable to judicial authorities, which
     would include the Supreme Court and the High
     Court acting under Section 11. A close look at
     Section 11(6-A) would show that when the
     Supreme Court or the High Court considers an
     application under Sections 11(4) to 11(6), and
     comes across an arbitration clause in an
     agreement or conveyance which is unstamped, it
     is enjoined by the provisions of the Stamp Act
     to first impound the agreement or conveyance
     and see that stamp duty and penalty (if any)
     is paid before the agreement, as a whole, can
     be acted upon. It is important to remember that
                             106
     the Stamp Act applies to the agreement or
     conveyance as a whole. Therefore, it is not
     possible to bifurcate the arbitration clause
     contained in such agreement or conveyance so
     as to give it an independent existence, as has
     been contended for by the respondent. The
     independent existence that could be given for
     certain limited purposes, on a harmonious
     reading of the Registration Act, 1908 and the
     1996 Act has been referred to by Raveendran,
     J. in SMS Tea Estates [SMS Tea Estates (P)
     Ltd. v. Chandmari Tea Co. (P) Ltd., (2011) 14
     SCC 66 : (2012) 4 SCC (Civ) 777] when it comes
     to an unregistered agreement or conveyance.
     However, the Stamp Act, containing no such
     provision as is contained in Section 49 of the
     Registration Act, 1908, has been held by the
     said judgment to apply to the agreement or
     conveyance as a whole, which would include the
     arbitration clause contained therein. It is
     clear, therefore, that the introduction of
     Section 11(6-A) does not, in any manner, deal
     with or get over the basis of the judgment
     in SMS Tea Estates [SMS Tea Estates (P)
     Ltd. v. Chandmari Tea Co. (P) Ltd., (2011) 14
     SCC 66 : (2012) 4 SCC (Civ) 777] , which
     continues to apply even after the amendment of
     Section 11(6-A).”
                               (Emphasis supplied)

87. This is apart from, the Court after referring to
Sections 2(g) and 2(h) of the Contract Act, going on

to make the observations at paragraph-22 and, finally,

paragraph-29   which   we   have   noticed.   In   fact,   in

paragraph-30, the Court went on to disapprove various

Judgments of High Courts, which included the Full Bench

of the High Court of Bombay in Gautam Landscapes Pvt.

                            107
Limited v. Shailesh S. Shah33, insofar as it related to

the High Court holding that after the insertion of

Section 11(6A) of the Act, the Court, acting under

Section 11(6), need not be detained by the aspect

relating to the document not being stamped.

88. Section 11(6A) of the Act, no doubt, contemplated
constraining the court to not stray into areas which

were permissible under the earlier regime which was set

out in SBP (supra) as explained in National Insurance

(supra). It must be understood that when the law giver

changes the law it would be indeed a wise approach and

fully commended in law to ascertain the mischief which

the legislature was dealing with. Equally, the court

would    naturally   enquire   as    to    what   is   the   relief

against the mischief which the law giver has provided.

The mischief as we understand was the perception that

courts    were   overstepping        the   limits      of    minimal

interference in consonance with the principle enshrined

in Section 5 of the Act. In other words, if we may bear

in mind paragraphs 22.2 and 22.3 of National Insurance



33
     (2019) SCC OnLine Bom 563
                               108
Company (supra) it would appear that they fell outside

of   the   question   relating   to    the    existence   of    an

arbitration agreement. The Stamp Act is a law passed

by the same law-giver. It is a law which is meant to

have   life,   and    therefore,      to     be   enforced.    The

legislature would not have possibly contemplated, when

it incorporated Section 11(6A), that the courts must

turn a blind eye to the injunction of a law and allow

it to be defeated. This to our minds involves adopting

an interpretation which would ignore the principle of

harmonious construction of statutes.

89. As far as the conclusion in paragraph 55 of Great
Offshore Ltd. (supra) that since Section 7 of the Act

does not stipulate for stamping, stamping may not be

required under the Stamp Act, does not commend itself

to us as the correct position in law.             We are equally

unable to subscribe to the view that stamp duty, inter

alia, should be treated as a ‘technicality’.              We are

also of the view that the view taken by the learned

Single Judge otherwise in the said paragraph again does

not represent the correct position.


                            109
90. Section 5 no doubt provides for a non-obstante
clause.   It   provides   against   judicial   interference

except as provided in the Act. The non-obstante clause

purports to proclaim so despite the presence of any law

which may provide for interference otherwise. However,

this does not mean that the operation of the Stamp Act,

in particular, Sections 33 and 35 would not have any

play. We are of the clear view that the purport of

Section 5 is not to take away the effect of Sections

33 and 35 of the Stamp Act. The Court under Section 11

purporting to give effect to Sections 33 and 35 cannot

be accused of judicial interference contrary to Section

5 of the Act.

91. It is nobody’s case that if the contract which
contains the arbitration clause is an instrument within

the meaning of the Stamp Act is produced before the

court under Section 11 of the Act, and it is found to

be unstamped on the face of it, that Sections 33 and

35 and other allied provisions of the Stamp Act would

have no play. In fact, in N.N. Global (supra), this

Court directed the work order (the contract containing

the arbitration clause) to be impounded. Section 11
 110
(6A) of the Act which requires the court to examine

whether an arbitration agreement exists, was the need

realized and articulated by Parliament to curb the

court from straying into other areas highlighted in

National Insurance (supra). In other words, proceeding

on the basis that an ‘unstamped agreement’ exists, it

would not deflect the court of its statutory duty to

follow the regime under Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp

Act.


N.     THE AMICUS CURIE SPRINGS A SURPRISE

92. This Court pointed out to the existence of the
Scheme prepared by the Supreme Court in exercise of the

powers under Section 11(10). Paragraph 2(a) of the

Scheme, inter alia, reads as follows:

       “2. Submission of request. -The request to the
       Chief Justice under sub-section (4) or sub-
       section (5) or sub-section (6) of section 11
       shall be made in writing and shall be
       accompanied by-

       (a) the original arbitration agreement or a
       duly certified copy thereof;”

93. Thereafter, when the curtains were about to be rung
down on the hearing, the learned Amicus brought the

following aspect to notice of the Court. He pointed out
                           111
that under the Scheme, the applicant need produce only

the certified copy of the Arbitration Agreement. He

would draw support from the Judgments of this Court in

Jupudi Kesava Rao v. Pulavarthi Venkata Subbarao and

others34 and Hariom Agrawal (supra) to contend that even

applying Sections 33 and 35 by the Court at the stage

of Section 11 of the Act, the certified copy cannot be

impounded. He, thus, sought to take the wind out of the

sail of the appellant’s contention, by contending that

in most of the cases, since certified copies are alone

being filed and they cannot be impounded, and as after

reference to the Arbitrator based on the certified

copy,    the   Arbitrator   is   competent,   in   law,   under

Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act to do the needful,

this Court may bear this aspect in mind. Thereupon,

Shri Gagan Sanghi, would point out that even in the

certified copy, the factum of payment of the stamp duty

must be entered. The said aspect, in fact, engaged the

attention of this Court in SMS Tea Estates (supra).




34
     (1971) 1 SCC 545
                             112
94. Reference has been made to Jupudi Kesava Rao
(supra), to contend that a copy of an instrument,

cannot be treated as an instrument under the Stamp Act

for the purpose of Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act.

A copy cannot be impounded under Section 33, it is

pointed out. Therefore, Section 33, which mandates

impounding of an unstamped instrument, would not apply

to a certified copy, which is permitted to be produced

under     the   Scheme.   Reliance   has   been   placed   on

paragraphs-13 and 14 of Jupudi Kesava Rao (supra):

        “13. The first limb of Section 35 clearly shuts
        out from evidence any instrument chargeable
        with duty unless it is duly stamped. The second
        limb of it which relates to acting upon the
        instrument   will   obviously   shut  out any
        secondary evidence of such instrument, for
        allowing such evidence to be let in when the
        original admittedly chargeable with duty was
        not stamped or insufficiently stamped, would
        be tantamount to the document being acted upon
        by the person having by law or authority to
        receive   evidence.   Proviso    (a)  is   only
        applicable when the original instrument is
        actually before the Court of law and the
        deficiency in stamp with penalty is paid by the
        party seeking to rely upon the document.
        Clearly secondary evidence either by way of
        oral evidence of the contents of the unstamped
        document or the copy of it covered by Section
        63 of the Indian Evidence Act would not fulfil
        the requirements of the proviso which enjoins
        upon the authority to receive nothing in
        evidence except the instrument itself. Section
                             113
25 is not concerned with any copy of an
     instrument and a party can only be allowed to
     rely on a document which is an instrument for
     the purpose of Section 35. “Instrument” is
     defined in Section 2(14) as including every
     document by which any right or liability is,
     or purports to be created, transferred,
     limited, extended, extinguished or recorded.
     There is no scope for inclusion of a copy of a
     document as an instrument for the purpose of
     the Stamp Act.

     14. If Section 35 only deals with original
     instruments and not copies Section 36 cannot
     be so interpreted as to allow secondary
     evidence of an instrument to have its benefit.
     The words “an instrument” in Section 36 must
     have the same meaning as that in Section 35.
     The legislature only relented from the strict
     provisions of Section 35 in cases where the
     original instrument was admitted in evidence
     without objection at the initial stage of a
     suit or proceeding. In other words, although
     the objection is based on the insufficiency of
     the stamp affixed to the document, a party who
     has a right to object to the reception of it
     must do so when the document is first tendered.
     Once the time for raising objection to the
     admission of the documentary evidence is
     passed, no objection based on the same ground
     can be raised at a later stage. But this in no
     way extends the applicability of Section 36 to
     secondary evidence adduced or sought to be
     adduced in proof of the contents of a document
     which is unstamped or insufficiently stamped.”

                                (Emphasis supplied)

95. In Jupudi Kesava Rao (supra), the appellant relied
on oral evidence to prove the lease document which was

insufficiently stamped. The High Court held that oral

                         114
evidence could not be acted upon to prove the lease

agreement. The main question, which arose was, whether

secondary evidence of a written agreement to grant a

lease, was barred under Sections 35 and 36 of the Stamp

Act. The Court went on to find, on a survey of the

Evidence Act that it did not purport to deal with

admissibility of documents in evidence, which were

required to be stamped under the Stamp Act. It is

thereafter that the Court went on to hold what was done

in paragraphs-13 and 14 of the Judgment. While dealing

with Section 35 of the Act, the Court, inter alia, held

that ‘the second limb of Section 35 of the Stamp Act,

which related to acting upon the instrument, would

obviously shut out any secondary evidence of such

instrument, for allowing such evidence to be let in,

when the original, admittedly chargeable with duty, was

not stamped or insufficiently stamped, would tantamount

to the document being acted upon by the person having

by law or Authority, to receive evidence. Proviso (a)

is only applicable, it was found when the original

instrument is actually before the Court of Law and the

deficiency in stamp with penalty is paid by the party

                         115
seeking to rely upon the document. It is, thereafter,

the   Court    observed   that   ‘there   is    no    scope   for

inclusion of a copy of a document as an instrument for

the purpose of the Stamp Act’. The Court also, in

paragraph-14, found that Section 36 of the Stamp Act,

which precludes a party, who did not object to the

admission of an unstamped or insufficiently stamped

document,     in   evidence,   from   raising   the   objection

later, did not apply to secondary evidence.

96. In Hariom Agrawal (supra), a Bench of three learned
Judges, was dealing with the impugned Order of the High

Court, by which, it held that a photocopy of the

original agreement, could neither be impounded nor

could it be accepted as secondary evidence. It was

after following Jupudi Kesava Rao (supra), the Court

held as follows:

      “10. It is clear from the decisions of this
      Court and a plain reading of Sections 33, 35
      and 2(14) of the Act that an instrument which
      is not duly stamped can be impounded and when
      the required fee and penalty has been paid for
      such instrument it can be taken in evidence
      under Section 35 of the Stamp Act. Sections 33
      or 35 are not concerned with any copy of the
      instrument and party can only be allowed to
      rely on the document which is an instrument
      within the meaning of Section 2(14). There is

                               116
       no scope for the inclusion of the copy of the
       document for the purposes of the Stamp Act. Law
       is now no doubt well settled that copy of the
       instrument cannot be validated by impounding
       and this cannot be admitted as secondary
       evidence under the Stamp Act, 1899.”

                                          (Emphasis supplied)

97. The submission appears to be that the Scheme
provides     for   a    certified    copy   of     the    Arbitration

Agreement and if the Arbitration Agreement is a part

of    the   contract,     which    is    either    not    stamped      or

insufficiently         stamped    and,    since,    it        cannot   be

impounded under Section 33 of the Stamp Act, cannot be

validated. All that the Court has to look into is,

whether an Arbitration Agreement exists.

98. It is, no doubt, true that under the Scheme, an
applicant can produce, either the Original or the

certified copy. What is a certified copy? A certified

copy is to be understood in the light of Section 76 of

the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (hereinafter referred to

as,   ‘the   Evidence      Act’,    for   short).        It    reads   as

follows:

       “76. Certified copies of public documents.—
       Every public officer having the custody of a
       public document, which any person has a right
       to inspect, shall give that person on demand a

                                  117
     copy of it on payment of the legal fees
     therefor, together with a certificate written
     at the foot of such copy that it is a true copy
     of such document or part thereof, as the case
     may be, and such certificate shall be dated and
     subscribed by such officer with his name and
     his official title, and shall be sealed,
     whenever such officer is authorized by law to
     make use of a seal; and such copies so
     certified shall be called certified copies.—
     Every 3public officer having the custody of a
     public document, which any person has a right
     to inspect, shall give that person on demand a
     copy of it on payment of the legal fees
     therefor, together with a certificate written
     at the foot of such copy that it is a true copy
     of such document or part thereof, as the case
     may be, and such certificate shall be dated and
     subscribed by such officer with his name and
     his official title, and shall be sealed,
     whenever such officer is authorized by law to
     make use of a seal; and such copies so
     certified shall be called certified copies."
     Explanation. —Any officer who, by the ordinary
     course of official duty, is authorized to
     deliver such copies, shall be deemed to have
     the custody of such documents within the
     meaning of this section.”

99. This necessarily would take us to Section 74 of
the Evidence Act, which defines what is a ‘public

document’. Section 74 reads as follows:

     “74.   Public   documents.   —The    following
     documents are public documents: —
     (1) Documents forming the acts, or records of
     the acts—
       (i) of the sovereign authority,
       (ii) of official bodies and tribunals, and
                         118
           (iii) of   public   officers,   legislative,
           judicial and executive, of any part of India
           or of the Commonwealth, or of a foreign
           country; of any part of India or of the
           Commonwealth, or of a foreign country;
       (2) Public records kept in any State of private
       documents.”


100.       We have already noticed that Section 35 of the

Stamp Act interdicts the registration of an instrument

unless it is duly stamped.

101.       The interplay of the Evidence Act, the Stamp

Act and the Registration Act is to be understood as

follows:

     In regard to an instrument, which is executed in

India and which is liable to be stamped, then, stamping

has to take place before or at the time of the execution

of   the   instrument.      It   is    after   the   instrument   is

stamped that it can be presented for registration.

Section     17   of   the   Registration       Act   provides     for

documents, which are compulsorily registrable. Section

18 permits registration of other documents at the

option of the persons concerned. An instrument, which

is registered, necessarily involves, it being duly

stamped before it is so registered. This result is
                                 119
inevitable, having regard to the impact of Section 35

of the Stamp Act. In fact, an instrument, which is not

duly   stamped     and    which    is     produced    before     the

Registering Authority, would be liable to be impounded

under Section 33 of the Stamp Act. What Section 74 read

with Section 76 of the Evidence Act provides for is,

the issuance of certified copies. Certified copies can

be issued only in respect of public documents. Section

62 inter alia of the Evidence Act defines primary

evidence    as    the   document    itself    produced     for   the

inspection of the court. Section 63 of the Evidence Act

defines ‘secondary evidence’ as meaning and including,

inter alia, ‘certified copies under the provisions

hereinafter      contained’.   The      provisions   ‘hereinafter

contained’ referred to in Section 63 must be understood

as Section 74 read with Section 76. A certified copy

can be given, no doubt, of ‘public records kept in any

State of private documents’. Thus, if a sale deed

between two private parties comes to be registered,

instead of producing the original document, a certified

copy   of   the   sale   deed,     may    qualify    as   secondary

evidence and a certified copy can be sought for and

                               120
issued    under   Section    76    of     the   Evidence   Act.   The

expression ‘public records kept in any State of a

private document’ in Section 74 is not confined to

documents, which are registered under the Registration

Act. A private document, which is kept as a public

record, may qualify as a public document. What is

important is, to bear in mind that in view of Section

33 of the Stamp Act, an instrument, which is not duly

stamped, if it is produced before any Public Office,

it would become liable to be impounded and dealt with

as provided in the Stamp Act. Let us assume a case

where a contract, which contains an Arbitration Clause,

is registered. As we have noticed, if the contract, in

which the Arbitration Clause is contained, is exigible

to   stamp   duty,   then,     registration       cannot   be     done

without    the    instrument      being    duly   stamped.   It    is

keeping the same in mind that in SMS Tea Estates

(supra), this Court held that, ‘if what is produced is

a certified copy of the agreement/contract/instrument,

containing the Arbitration Clause, it should disclose

that the stamp duty has been paid on the original’.

This again is for the reason that a certified copy is

                                  121
a true copy of the document. The Officer, who certifies

the document, must be the person having the custody of

the public document. The public document in the case

of public records of private documents, in the case of

a registered document, would necessarily involve the

document being stamped before registration. The Scheme

framed by the Chief Justice, permits the production of

a duly certified copy to relieve the party of the burden

of producing the original but what is contemplated is

only the production of the certified copy, which duly

discloses the fact of payment of stamp duty. It is

worthwhile to also notice paragraph-5 of the Scheme.

It reads:

         “5. Seeking further information. -The Chief
         Justice or the person or the institution
         designated by him under paragraph 3 may
         seek further information or clarification
         from the party making the request under
         this Scheme.”

102.     Therefore, it is not as if the Judge dealing

with an Application under Section 11 of the Act, is

bereft   of   authority   to    seek   information     or

clarification so as to be satisfied that the certified




                          122
copy satisfies the requirement as laid down in SMS Tea

Estates (supra) that stamp duty payable has been paid.

103.      We have already indicated the scheme of the

Evidence Act in so far as it relates to the admission

of secondary evidence. We have also found that the

Scheme    contemplates,      without     anything         more,    the

production of a form of secondary evidence, viz., a

certified copy of the Arbitration Agreement. Even if

an   Arbitration      Agreement    between     the   two     parties

becomes a public document under Section 74(c) of the

Evidence Act on the basis that it is a public record,

other than as being a registered document and on the

basis that, it was produced before any public office

and it became a public record of a private document,

in keeping with the mandate of Section 33 of the Stamp

Act and other connected provisions, such a document

again    would    have   been     impounded,     unless      it    was

originally stamped as per law. In other words, if a

certified copy is produced, along with a request under

Section 11 of the Act, to be treated as a document, on

which    the   Application      under   Section      11    could    be

maintained,      it   must   necessarily       comply      with    the

                                123
requirement that it declares the stamp, which has been

paid in regard to the original.

104.        The production of a copy of an instrument, may

not lead to the impounding of the copy as Section 33,

which mandates impounding, applies only in regard to

the original, which alone is treated as an instrument

under      Section       2(14)   of   the   Stamp   Act.   We   must

understand the context of the ruling in Jupudi Kesava

Rao (supra) and Hariom Agrawal (supra) to be that a

party cannot ‘validate’ an instrument by producing a

copy and by getting it impounded and paying the duty

and penalty. In fact, as observed in paragraph-13 of

Jupudi Kesava Rao (supra), the Court cannot be invited

to   act    upon     a    copy   of   an    instrument,    which   is

insufficiently stamped. Thus, such a copy, while it

cannot be impounded under Section 33, it cannot also

be acted upon under Section 35.


O. SECTIONS 33 AND 35 OF THE STAMP ACT; THE COURT
OR THE ARBITRATOR TO ACT?

105.        There was considerable debate at the Bar as

regards the wisdom in relegating the issue relating to

payment of stamp duty to the Arbitrator. On the one
                                  124
hand, the learned Amicus, supported by learned Counsel

for the Respondent, would canvass that, bearing in mind

the object of the Act, and in particular, Section 5 of

the Act, prohibiting judicial interference, except as

provided, questions relating to non-payment of stamp

duty and the amount to be paid, are capable of being

dealt with by the Arbitrator. The concern of the Court,

that the interest of the Revenue is protected, is best

balanced with the overwhelming need to fastrack the

arbitration proceedings and they are best harmonised

by ensuring that the Arbitrator will look into the

matter and ensure that the interest of the Revenue is

not jeopardised. On the other hand, the appellant and

the intervener would point out that the Court cannot

ignore the mandate of the law contained in Sections 33

and 35 of the Stamp Act and a view taken by this Court,

on the said lines, will only encourage evasion of the

law, whereas, if the Court follows the mandate of

Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act and adheres to what

has been laid down in Garware (supra), not only would

the law be observed, but, when the matter reaches the

Arbitrator,   the   issue   would   have   been   given   the

                            125
quietus. Such a view would also encourage persons

falling in line with the Stamp Act.

106.          We     see    merit        in    the     contention       of   the

appellant. Apart from the Court acting in consonance

with the law, when it adheres to Sections 33 and 35 of

the Stamp Act, where it applies, in our view, under the

watchful gaze of the Court, be it the High Court or the

Supreme Court, the issue relating to stamp duty, in a

case    where       there     is    no    stamp      duty      paid,    is   best

resolved.

107.          The question would arise as follows:

i.     A document containing the Arbitration Clause may

       not bear any stamp duty. We have already found that

       even an Arbitration Agreement, on its own, may be

       required to be stamped, as submitted by the learned

       Amicus. But then the Court can proceed on the basis

       that        the     amount    of        stamp        duty,    which    the

       Arbitration Agreement contained in an Arbitration

       Clause,       would     be    exigible          to    being     extremely

       meagre, there is very little likelihood of such an

       agreement not being stamped. Therefore, what the

       Court is to consider is, whether when the contract,
                                         126
      in which the Arbitration Clause is contained, is

      not duly stamped, it becomes the duty of the Court

      to act under Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act.

ii.   We     have     already      indicated      the   background,

      consisting of the views expressed by this Court,

      about the nature of review undertaken under Section

      11, which led to the insertion of Section 11(6A).

      Parliament clearly intended to deal with the Court

      undertaking excessive review, in exercise of the

      power under Section 11(6) of the Act. It was to

      curtail excessive judicial interference, which was

      in keeping also with the principle enshrined in

      Section 5 of the Act that Parliament interfered

      and enacted the amendment resulting in Section

      11(6A) being inserted. Parliament was aware of the

      view    taken    by   this     Court   in   SMS   Tea    Estates

      (supra), namely that, if the Arbitration Agreement

      was not duly stamped, then, it had to be impounded

      and dealt with as provided therein. The mandate of

      the Stamp Act did not conflict with the legislative

      command       contained   in    Section     11(6A),     viz.,   to

      examine whether an Arbitration Agreement existed.

                                   127
       Proceeding on the basis, in fact, that a contract,

       containing the Arbitration Agreement, which is not

       duly stamped, could be said to exist in law, it

       would still not dislodge the duty cast on the Court

       under Section 11 to follow the mandate of Sections

       33 and 35 of the Stamp Act. In other words, on the

       aforesaid    view,       following   the   command    under

       Section 11(6A), could not detract from, the Court

       also   at   the   same    time,   following   the    equally

       binding mandate contained in the Stamp Act.

iii.   The question further arises, as to whether, in view

       of the power of the Court under Section 11, to find

       only prima facie, the existence of the Arbitration

       Agreement, it would enable the Court to make a

       Reference and appointment and relegate the issue

       of impounding of the document to the Arbitrator.

iv.    Any shirking of the statutory duty by the Court

       under Section 11 to act in tune with the peremptory

       statutory dictate of the Stamp Act, appears to us

       unjustifiable. Such abdication of its plain duty

       is neither contemplated by the Law-Giver nor would



                                  128
     it be justifiable as causing the breach of Section

     11(6A).

v.   The view that cases under Section 11 of the Act

     would consume more time and hinder the timely

     progress of arbitration and that the matter must

     be postponed so that the Arbitrator will more

     suitably deal with it, does not appeal to us. While

     the Stamp Act is primarily intended to collect

     revenue and it is not intended to arm a litigant

     to   raise     ‘technical      pleas’,     this    would   hardly

     furnish justification for the Court to ignore the

     voice of the Legislature couched in unambiguous

     terms. We find that the view expressed in SMS Tea

     Estates    (supra),      being    reiterated,       despite   the

     insertion of Section 11(6A), would promote the

     object of the Stamp Act and yet be reconcilable

     with    the    mandate    of     Section    11(6A).    We     may,

     however, qualify what we have said with a caveat.

     There may be cases, where no stamp duty is seen

     paid.     It   paves     the    way   for    the    unambiguous

     discharge of duty under Sections 33 and 35 of the

     Stamp Act. There may, however, be cases, where it

                                 129
      may be stamped but the objection is taken by the

      party that it is not duly stamped. In such cases,

      no doubt, it is ordinarily the duty of the Court

      to examine the matter with reference to the duty

      under    Section      33(2).    If   the   claim    that it    is

      insufficiently stamped, appears to the Court to be

      on the face of it, wholly without foundation, it

      may    make    the     Reference     on    the   basis   of   the

      existence of an Arbitration Agreement otherwise

      and    then    leave    it    open   to    the   Arbitrator    to

      exercise the power under Section 33, should it

      become necessary.            This approach does justice to

      the word ‘examine’ in Section 33(2) of the Stamp

      Act while not ignoring the command of Section

      11(6A) of the Act.           It is not to be confused with

      the     duty   to    examine     prima     facie    whether    an

      ‘Arbitration         Agreement’      exists      under   Section

      11(6A) of the Act, but is related to the duty to

      examine the matter under Section 33(2) of the Stamp

      Act.

vi.   Under the Evidence Act, production of only the

      original document is permissible by way of evidence

                                    130
(See Section 62). However, secondary evidence is

permissible under Section 63 and certified copies

are    treated     as   secondary     evidence.           Under    the

Scheme, in a proceeding under Section 11, without

following        the   procedure     in   the   Evidence          Act,

secondary evidence, in the form of certified copy,

is permitted. It may be true that since certified

copies are permitted to maintain an Application

under Section 11 and, in law, impounding cannot be

done    of   a    certified    copy,      as    it    is    not     an

instrument, the duty of the Court to examine the

matter from the point of view of Section 33 of the

Stamp Act, may not exist as such. However, we have

explained what constitutes a certified copy, and

that, in view of SMS Tea Estates (supra), the stamp

duty paid must be indicated in the certified copy

and, in appropriate case, the Court has power,

under   paragraph-5       of   the    Scheme,        to    call    for

information. It becomes the duty of the Court, in

cases, where a certified copy is produced, to be

satisfied that the production of the certified

copy, fulfils the requirement in law. As already

                            131
      noticed, while the certified copy which does not

      show    that     the   stamp      duty     is   paid     cannot    be

      impounded under Section 33, it cannot be acted upon

      under Section 35 of the Stamp Act.


P.  ARBITRATION AGREEMENT, A DISTINCT AGREEMENT
AND ITS IMPACT?
i.    The last question, which remains is, whether, if

      the contract, in which, the Arbitration Clause is

      located, is unstamped but the Arbitration Clause

      is stamped, the Court can ignore the fact that the

      instrument       containing          in    the     Contract        is

      unstamped. In the first place, such an eventuality

      cannot arise. This for the reason that unless there

      is misrepresentation or a fraud played, it is

      incomprehensible as to how, when the contract is

      produced, it will not be dealt with under Section

      33 of the Stamp Act among other provisions.

ii.   The    learned    Amicus,      in    fact,      points      out   that

      invariably the Arbitration Agreement is contained

      as a clause in a larger agreement. The contract

      would    consist       of   the     document     containing       the

      Arbitration       Agreement.        This    brings     us    to   the

                                   132
       question as to whether the Arbitration Agreement

       can be treated as a separate contract, and even if

       the main contract is not stamped, it suffices if

       the Arbitration Agreement alone is stamped.

iii.   In     N.N.   Global    (supra),    in    fact,       the    Court

       proceeded to impound the main contract which was

       the Work Order. The Doctrine of the Arbitration

       Agreement      being     a    distinct     and    a     separate

       agreement, is well-established.

              The Doctrine of Kompetenz-Kompetenz has been

       enshrined in Section 16 of the Act. Section 16,

       undoubtedly, articulates the principle that the

       Arbitral Tribunal may rule on its jurisdiction

       including objections relating to the validity of

       the Arbitration Agreement and its very existence

       and,    for   that     purpose,    an    Arbitration        Clause

       forming part of the contract, is to be treated as

       an agreement independent from the other terms of

       the contract. Equally, Section 16(1)(b) declares

       that despite the Tribunal finding that the contract

       was null and void, it would not invalidate the

       Arbitration Clause. The evolution of the principle

                                    133
that an Arbitration Agreement is a separate and

distinct       agreement   from    the     contract,       would

indicate that it would have no play in the context

of the duty of a Court, within the meaning of

Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act, to act in

consonance       therewith.      The     efficacy    of      the

Arbitration Clause in a contract is preserved so

that     the     extinguishing     of      the    contractual

obligations by termination or non-performance or

alleged performance, does not deprive the parties

of their rights and the power of the Arbitrator to

adjudicate      on   disputes,    which,    otherwise       fall

within the ambit of the Arbitration Clause.

       The underlying principle behind treating the

Arbitration Agreement as a separate agreement is

to create a mechanism, which survives the contract

so that disputes, falling within the Arbitration

Agreement, are resolved. Thus, the rescission of

the main contract would not result in the death of

the     Arbitration     Clause.    We     agree     that     the

Arbitration Clause may be a collateral term [See




                           134
      Heyman     v.    Darwins     Limited35].       The       Arbitration

      Agreement, it is found in N.N. Global (supra),

      ‘exists and can be acted upon, irrespective of

      whether the main substantive contract is valid or

      not’ [See paragraph-4.10 of N.N. Global (supra)].

      It may be true that, ordinarily, the invalidity of

      the main agreement may not affect the Arbitration

      Clause     [See        paragraph-4.12        of      N.N.    Global

      (supra)]. However, proceeding on the basis that an

      Arbitration Agreement contained as a clause in the

      main contract, is a separate agreement and it can

      exist independently, the fallacy behind such a line

      of argument in the context of Sections 33 and 35

      of the Stamp Act, can be demonstrated as follows:

           The learned Amicus would urge that in N.N.

      Global (supra) the Court erred in finding that the

      Arbitration          Agreement    is   not    required       to   be

      stamped. If so, the Arbitration Clause, being the

      Arbitration          Agreement,    would       require       to   be

      stamped.        Is    it   conceivable       that    a    contract,



35
     (1942) AC 356 HL
                                   135
    containing an Arbitration Clause, would be stamped

    only    to   cover the    liability   in   regard to    the

    Arbitration Agreement and leave the main agreement

    unstamped, when it is required to be stamped? Will

    not acceptance of such a view require the Court to

    adopt     an   interpretation     that      will    plainly

    encourage parties to contravene the mandate of the

    Stamp Act. We are afraid that, therefore, even

    proceeding     on   the   basis   that     an   Arbitration

    Agreement is a separate agreement, would be of no

    avail in a case where the Arbitration Clause and

    the main Agreement are both exigible to stamp duty.


108.       As found in SMS Tea Estates (supra), in view

of the fact that there is a bar to the use of an

instrument, which is not stamped or insufficiently

stamped for any purpose (unlike Section 49 of the

Registration Act, which allows an unregistered document

to be used to prove a collateral transaction), an

unstamped instrument, in which, an Arbitration Clause

is part of, cannot be allowed to be used, as it would

be allowing the instrument to be used to establish a

collateral transaction. This is proceeding on the basis
                              136
that an Arbitration Agreement is a collateral term and

may have a distinct existence, separate from the main

agreement.


Q.    CONCLUSIONS


109.       The view taken in SMS Tea Estates (supra) as

followed    in    Garware    (supra)    and   by   the   Bench    in

Dharmaratnakara Rai Bahadur Arcot Narainswamy Mudaliar

Chattram    and    other    Charities   v.    Bhaskar    Raju    and

Brothers and others36 as to the effect of an unstamped

contract containing an Arbitration Agreement and the

steps to be taken by the Court, represent the correct

position in law as explained by us hereinbefore. N.N.

Global (supra) was wrongly decided, when it held to the

contrary and overruled SMS Tea Estates (supra) and

Garware (supra).

110.       An    instrument,   which    is    exigible   to   stamp

duty, may contain an Arbitration Clause and which is

not stamped, cannot be said to be a contract, which is

enforceable in law within the meaning of Section 2(h)
36
     (2020) 4 SCC 612
                               137
of   the   Contract       Act    and    is   not     enforceable       under

Section    2(g)     of     the       Contract      Act.    An    unstamped

instrument, when it is required to be stamped, being

not a contract and not enforceable in law, cannot,

therefore, exist in law.                Therefore, we approve of

paragraphs-22       and    29    of    Garware       (supra).     To   this

extent,    we     also    approve      of    Vidya    Drolia      (supra),

insofar as the reasoning in paragraphs-22 and 29 of

Garware (supra) is approved.

111.       The true intention behind the insertion of

Section 11(6A) in the Act was to confine the Court,

acting under Section 11, to examine and ascertain about

the existence of an Arbitration Agreement.

112.       The Scheme permits the Court, under Section 11

of   the   Act,    acting       on    the    basis    of   the   original

agreement or on a certified copy. The certified copy

must, however, clearly indicate the stamp duty paid as

held in SMS Tea Estates (supra). If it does not do so,

the Court should not act on such a certified copy.

113.       If the original of the instrument is produced

and it is unstamped, the Court, acting under Section


                                     138
11, is duty-bound to act under Section 33 of the Stamp

Act    as   explained      hereinbefore.   When    it   does   so,

needless to say, the other provisions, which, in the

case of the payment of the duty and penalty would

culminate in the certificate under Section 42(2) of the

Stamp Act, would also apply. When such a stage arises,

the Court will be free to process the Application as

per law.

114.        An Arbitration Agreement, within the meaning

of Section 7 of the Act, which attracts stamp duty and

which is not stamped or insufficiently stamped, cannot

be acted upon, in view of Section 35 of the Stamp Act,

unless      following   impounding     and   payment     of    the

requisite duty, necessary certificate is provided under

Section 42 of the Stamp Act.

115.        We   further     hold   that   the    provisions    of

Sections 33 and the bar under Section 35 of the Stamp

Act, applicable to instruments chargeable to stamp duty

under Section 3 read with the Schedule to the Stamp

Act, would render the Arbitration Agreement contained

in such instrument as being non-existent in law unless

the instrument is validated under the Stamp Act.
                                139
116.      In a given case, the Court has power under

paragraph-5 of the Scheme, to seek information from a

party, even in regard to stamp duty.

117.      We make it clear that we have not pronounced

on the matter with reference to Section 9 of the Act.

The reference to the Constitution Bench shall stand

answered accordingly.

118.      We record our deep sense of appreciation for

the efforts put in by Shri Gourab Banerji, learned

senior counsel who has ably assisted this Court as

Amicus.


                                     …………………………………………J.
                                    [K.M. JOSEPH]



                                     …………………………………………J.
                                    [ANIRUDDHA BOSE]


NEW DELHI;
DATED: APRIL 25, 2023.


                          140
                                                        1
                                            REPORTABLE

                IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
                 CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION

              CIVIL APPEAL NO(S). 3802-3803 OF 2020




M/S. N.N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE
PRIVATE LIMITED                        ….APPELLANT(S)




                 VERSUS




M/S INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. ….RESPONDENT(S)




                     JUDGMENT




Rastogi, J.                                                               2


                                 INDEX

Sr.                      Topic                      Page No.
no.
I.     Reference                                      3-4

II.    Conflicting Judgments                         4-20

III.   Requirements under Indian Stamp Act,          20-31
       1899 - Discussions on Provisions of Indian
       Stamp Act, 1899 (Chapter IV- Sections 33-
       48, More specifically Sections 33, 35, 36,
       38, 40, 42)

IV.    Historical Background of Arbitration in       31-37
       India

V.     Intent behind incorporation of Section        37-41
11(6A) of the Arbitration and Conciliation
       Act,1996

VI.    Scope of Section 11 (6A) w.r.t. Section 8,    42-53
       Section 16, and Section 45 of the
       Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996

VII.   Limited Examination by Court under            54-55
       Section 11(6A) of the Arbitration and
       Conciliation Act, 1996


VIII. Interpretation of “Existence of Arbitration    55-57
      Agreement”

IX.    Clarification on Stamping of Arbitration      57-59
       Agreement

X.     Answer to the Reference                       59-61
                                                                          3


I. Reference


1.   This case deals with the larger question regarding the scope and

ambit to which there should be an intervention of courts at the pre-

referral stage in the working of arbitration contracts.


2.   A three-Judge Bench of this Court in M/s. N.N. Global

Mercantile Private Limited v. M/s. Indo Unique Flame Limited

and Others1 has doubted the correctness of the view expressed in

paras 146 and 147.1 of the coordinate three-Judge Bench of this

Court in Vidya Drolia and Others v. Durga Trading Corporation2

and referred the matter to be settled authoritatively by the

Constitution Bench of this Court.


3.   The reference which has been made to settle authoritatively by

the Constitution Bench is referred as under:

           “Whether the statutory bar contained in Section 35 of the
     Stamp Act, 1899 applicable to instruments chargeable to stamp
     duty under Section 3 read with the Schedule to the Act, would also
     render the arbitration agreement contained in such an instrument,
     which is not chargeable to payment of stamp duty, as being non-
     existent, unenforceable, or invalid, pending payment of stamp duty
     on the substantive contract/instrument?”
                                                      (emphasis added)


1 (2021) 4 SCC 379

2 (2021) 2 SCC 1
                                                                             4
4.   It is necessary to give background facts for better

appreciation of the reference made for our consideration.


II. Conflicting Judgments


5.   In the case of SMS Tea Estates Private Limited v. Chandmari

Tea Company Private Limited,3 a two-Judge Bench of this Court

was considering the issue in a pre-2015 amendment regime of

whether an arbitration agreement in an unregistered and unstamped

lease deed, which required compulsory registration under the

Registration Act, 1908(hereinafter being referred to as the “Act 1908”)

was valid and enforceable. It was held as follows:

     “19. Having regard to Section 35 of the Stamp Act, unless the stamp
     duty and penalty due in respect of the instrument is paid, the court
     cannot act upon the instrument, which means that it cannot act
     upon the arbitration agreement also which is part of the instrument.
     Section 35 of the Stamp Act is distinct and different from Section 49
     of the Registration Act in regard to an unregistered document.
     Section 35 of the Stamp Act, does not contain a proviso like Section
     49 of the Registration Act enabling the instrument to be used to
     establish a collateral transaction.
     21. Therefore, when a lease deed or any other instrument is relied
     upon as contending the arbitration agreement, the court should
     consider at the outset, whether an objection in that behalf is raised
     or not, whether the document is properly stamped. If it comes to the
     conclusion that it is not properly stamped, it should be impounded
     and dealt with in the manner specified in Section 38 of the Stamp
     Act. The court cannot act upon such a document or the arbitration

3 (2011) 14 SCC 66
                                                                              5


     clause therein. But if the deficit duty and penalty is paid in the
     manner set out in Section 35 or Section 40 of the Stamp Act, the
     document can be acted upon or admitted in evidence.”


6.   The above decision was followed in the case of Naina Thakkar

v. Annapurna Builders,4 wherein it was held as follows:

     “7. It is true that the consequences provided in the Stamp Act, 1899
     must follow where sufficient stamp duty has not been paid on an
     instrument irrespective of the willingness of a party to the
     instrument to pay deficit stamp duty but the procedure where the
     arbitration clause is contained in a document which is not registered
     although compulsorily registrable and which is not duly stamped as
     summed up by this Court in SMS Tea Estates (P) Ltd. case shall
     not be applicable to the proceedings under Section 8 of the
     [Arbitration and Conciliation] Act where the party making such
     application does not express his/her readiness and willingness to
     pay the deficit stamp duty and the penalty. It is not the duty of the
     Court to adjourn the suit indefinitely until the defect with reference
     to deficit stamp duty concerning the arbitration agreement is cured.
     Accordingly, we are of the opinion that no fault can be found in the
     order of the trial court in rejecting the application made under
     Section 8 of the Act as the document on which the petitioner relied
     upon was admittedly unregistered and insufficiently stamped.”



7.   An amendment was brought in the Arbitration and Conciliation

Act, 1996 (hereinafter being referred to as the “Act, 1996”), and

Section 11(6A) was inserted in 2016.


8.   A two-Judge Bench in Garware Wall Ropes Limited v.

Coastal Marine Constructions and Engineering Limited,5 dealt


4 (2013) 14 SCC 354

5 (2019) 9 SCC 209
                                                                               6


with the issue whether an arbitration clause in an agreement which

requires compulsorily to be stamped under the relevant Indian

Stamp Act, 1899(hereinafter being referred to as the “Act, 1899”), but

is not duly stamped, would be enforceable even after the insertion of

clause (6A) to Section 11 of the Act, 1996. The Bench followed the

reasoning and upholding of the decision in SMS Tea Estates Private

Limited(supra), and held:

     “19….A close look at Section 11(6-A) would show that when the
     Supreme Court or the High Court considers an application under
     Sections 11(4) to 11(6), and comes across an arbitration clause in
     an agreement or conveyance which is unstamped, it is enjoined by
     the provisions of the Stamp Act to first impound the agreement or
     conveyance and see that stamp duty and penalty (if any) is paid
     before the agreement, as a whole, can be acted upon. It is important
     to remember that the Stamp Act applies to the agreement or
     conveyance as a whole. Therefore, it is not possible to bifurcate the
     arbitration clause contained in such agreement or conveyance so as
     to give it an independent existence, as has been contended for by
     the respondent. The independent existence that could be given for
     certain limited purposes, on a harmonious reading of the
     Registration Act, 1908 and the 1996 Act has been referred to by
     Raveendran, J. in SMS Tea Estates when it comes to an unregistered
     agreement or conveyance. However, the Stamp Act, containing no
     such provision as is contained in Section 49 of the Registration Act,
     1908, has been held by the said judgment to apply to the agreement
     or conveyance as a whole, which would include the arbitration
     clause contained therein. It is clear, therefore, that the introduction
     of Section 11(6-A) does not, in any manner, deal with or get over the
     basis of the judgment in SMS Tea Estates, which continues to apply
     even after the amendment of Section 11(6-A).

     22. When an arbitration clause is contained “in a contract”, it is
     significant that the agreement only becomes a contract if it is
     enforceable by law. We have seen how, under the Stamp Act, an
     agreement does not become a contract, namely, that it is not
     enforceable in law, unless it is duly stamped. Therefore, even a plain
                                                                               7


     reading of Section 11(6-A), when read with Section 7(2) of the 1996
     Act and Section 2(h) of the Contract Act, would make it clear that
     an arbitration clause in an agreement would not exist when it is not
     enforceable by law. This is also an indicator that SMS Tea Estates
     has, in no manner, been touched by the amendment of Section 11(6-
     A).”


9.   The decision in Garware Wall Ropes Limited(supra) was cited

in approval by a three-Judge Bench in the case of Vidya Drolia and

Others(supra) wherein it was held:

     “146. We now proceed to examine the question, whether the word
     “existence” in Section 11 merely refers to contract formation
     (whether there is an arbitration agreement) and excludes the
     question of enforcement (validity) and therefore the latter falls
     outside the jurisdiction of the court at the referral stage. On
     jurisprudentially and textualism it is possible to differentiate
     between existence of an arbitration agreement and validity of an
     arbitration agreement. Such interpretation can draw support from
     the plain meaning of the word “existence”. However, it is equally
     possible, jurisprudentially and on contextualism, to hold that an
     agreement has no existence if it is not enforceable and not binding.
     Existence of an arbitration agreement presupposes a valid
     agreement which would be enforced by the court by relegating the
     parties to arbitration. Legalistic and plain meaning interpretation
     would be contrary to the contextual background including the
     definition clause and would result in unpalatable consequences. A
     reasonable and just interpretation of “existence” requires
     understanding the context, the purpose and the relevant legal
     norms applicable for a binding and enforceable arbitration
     agreement. An agreement evidenced in writing has no meaning
     unless the parties can be compelled to adhere and abide by the
     terms. A party cannot sue and claim rights based on an
     unenforceable document. Thus, there are good reasons to hold that
     an arbitration agreement exists only when it is valid and legal. A void
     and unenforceable understanding is no agreement to do anything.
     Existence of an arbitration agreement means an arbitration
     agreement that meets and satisfies the statutory requirements of
     both the Arbitration Act and the Contract Act and when it is
     enforceable in law.
                                                                             8
     147. We would proceed to elaborate and give further reasons:

     147.1 In Garware Wall Ropes Ltd., this Court had examined the
     question of stamp duty in an underlying contract with an arbitration
     clause and in the context had drawn a distinction between the first
     and second part of Section 7(2) of the Arbitration Act, albeit the
     observations made and quoted above with reference to ‘existence’
     and ‘validity’ of the arbitration agreement being apposite and
     extremely important, we would repeat the same by reproducing
     paragraph 29 thereof:

           “29. This judgment in Hyundai Engg. case is important
           in that what was specifically under consideration was
           an arbitration clause which would get activated only if
           an insurer admits or accepts liability. Since on facts it
           was found that the insurer repudiated the claim,
           though an arbitration clause did “exist”, so to speak, in
           the policy, it would not exist in law, as was held in that
           judgment, when one important fact is introduced,
           namely, that the insurer has not admitted or accepted
           liability. Likewise, in the facts of the present case, it is
           clear that the arbitration clause that is contained in the
           subcontract would not “exist” as a matter of law until
           the sub-contract is duly stamped, as has been held by
           us above. The argument that Section 11(6-A) deals with
           “existence”, as opposed to Section 8, Section 16 and
           Section 45, which deal with “validity” of an arbitration
           agreement is answered by this Court's understanding of
           the expression “existence” in Hyundai Engg. case, as
           followed by us.”;

     Existence and validity are intertwined, and arbitration agreement
     does not exist if it is illegal or does not satisfy mandatory legal
     requirements. Invalid agreement is no agreement.”

                                                          (Emphasis added)

10. Later, a three-Judge Bench in M/s. N.N. Global Mercantile

Private Limited(supra) held that in arbitration jurisprudence, an

“arbitration agreement is a distinct and separate agreement, which

is independent from the substantive commercial contract in which it
                                                                                  9


is embedded”. This three-Judge Bench made a reference to the

Constitution Bench, as it expressed its disagreements with the view

expressed in SMS Tea Estates Private Limited(supra), Garware

Wall Ropes Limited(supra), and Vidya Drolia and Others(supra). It

held:

        “26. In our view, there is no legal impediment to the enforceability
        of the arbitration agreement, pending payment of Stamp Duty on
        the substantive contract. The adjudication of the rights and
        obligations under the Work Order or the substantive commercial
        contract would however not proceed before complying with the
        mandatory provisions of the Stamp Act…

        28. In our view, the decision in SMS Tea Estates does not lay down
        the correct position in law on two issues i.e. (i) that an arbitration
        agreement in an unstamped commercial contract cannot be acted
        upon, or is rendered un-enforceable in law; and (ii) that an
        arbitration agreement would be invalid where the contract or
        instrument is voidable at the option of a party, such as u/s 19 of
        the Indian Contract Act, 1872.

        29. We hold that since the arbitration agreement is an independent
        agreement between the parties, and is not chargeable to payment of
        stamp duty, the non-payment of stamp duty on the commercial
        contract, would not invalidate the arbitration clause, or render it un-
        enforceable, since it has an independent existence of its own. The
        view taken by the Court on the issue of separability of the arbitration
        clause on the registration of the substantive contract, ought to have
        been followed even with respect to the Stamp Act. The non-payment
        of stamp duty on the substantive contract would not invalidate even
        the main contract. It is a deficiency which is curable on the payment
        of the requisite Stamp Duty.”

11. It also doubted the correctness of the view taken in SMS Tea

Estates Private Limited(supra), which was approved in Garware
                                                                            10


Wall Ropes Limited(supra) and Vidya Drolia and Others(supra),

and held:


     “56. We are of the considered view that the finding in SMS Tea
     Estates and Garware that the non-payment of stamp duty on the
     commercial contract would invalidate even the arbitration
     agreement, and render it non-existent in law, and un-enforceable, is
     not the correct position in law.

     57. In view of the finding in paragraph 146 and 147 of the judgment
     in Vidya Drolia by a co-ordinate bench, which has affirmed the
     judgment in Garware, the aforesaid issue is required to be
     authoritatively settled by a Constitution bench of this Court.”



12. As the Benches in both M/S. N.N. Global Mercantile Private

Limited(supra) and Vidya Drolia and Others(supra) are of equal

strength, this Constitution Bench has been called upon to

authoritatively rule on the issue. To adjudicate the issue, this Bench

at first needs to examine whether the requirements under the Act,

1899 at pre-referral stage are required to be examined for

appointment of Arbitrator under Section 11(6A) of the Act, 1996.


13. Mr. Gourab Banerjee, learned senior counsel, who appears as

Amicus Curiae to assist this Court, submits that the intention of the

Act, 1996 and the later amendments made from time to time were to

streamline the process and judicial intervention in arbitration
                                                                    11


proceedings adds significantly to the delay in the arbitration process

and that negates the benefit of arbitration. The Arbitration &

Conciliation (Amendment) Act, 2015 (hereinafter being referred to as

the 2015 Amendment) was introduced to emphasize the speedy

disposal of cases relating to arbitration with minimal court

interference.

14. Mr. Banerjee submits that so far as the scope and ambit of

Section 11 is concerned, it is only to fill the gap and the Court is

merely functioning as an appointing authority where the parties fail

to appoint an Arbitrator. After the insertion of Section 11(6A) (2015

Amendment), the legislative policy and purport are essentially to

minimize the Court’s intervention at the stage of appointing the

Arbitrator and with this intention, Section 11(6A) has been

incorporated which ought to be respected.

15. Mr. Banerjee further submits that the scope of the Court should

be circumscribed to confine to the examination, prima facie, of the

formal existence of the arbitration agreement at the stage of contract

formation, including whether the agreement is in writing and the core

contractual ingredients qua the formation of the agreement are

fulfilled.   On rare occasions, if a question is being raised by the
                                                                    12


parties, to some extent, the Court may examine the subject matter of

dispute as arbitrable but that too as an exception. At the same time,

so far as the Act, 1899 is concerned, it is only a fiscal measure

enacted to secure revenue of the State in certain classes of

instruments but that may not be invoked to arm a litigant with a

weapon of technicality to meet the case of his/her opponent. Once

the object of the revenue is secured according to law, the party

staking his claim in the instrument will not be defeated on the ground

of the initial defect in the instrument.

16. Mr. Banerjee further submits that even non-payment of stamp

duty is a curable defect and this defect can be cured at any stage

before the instrument is admitted into evidence by the Arbitral

Tribunal. If the insufficiency of stamp or unduly stamped is being

examined/adjudicated at the pre-referral stage by the Court under

Section 11, it would be nothing but to encourage parasitical

challenges and dilatory tactics in resisting reference to arbitration.

The natural solution inevitable is to appoint the Arbitrator and to

allow the dispute resolution proceedings to commence and permit the

Arbitral Tribunal to fulfil its duty under the Act, 1996. There is no
                                                                     13


reason why the Arbitral Tribunal cannot prevent the evasion of stamp

duty.

17. It is also brought to our notice that at the time of submitting an

application under Section 11 at the pre-referral stage, the parties are

not under an obligation to file an original arbitration agreement and

since the copy of the arbitration agreement is to be annexed with the

application, in true sense, it is not an instrument as being

contemplated under Section 2(14) of the Act, 1899, particularly at

the pre-referral stage, the question of invoking Sections 33 or 35 of

the Act, 1899 is not available to be invoked. In support of submission

Mr. Banerjee has placed reliance on the judgment of this Court

reported in Jupudi Kesava Rao v. Pulavarthi Venkata Subbarao

and Others6 which has been later followed by this Court in Hariom

Agrawal v. Prakash Chand Malviya7.

18. Taking assistance thereof, Mr. Banerjee submits that Sections

33 or 35 are not concerned with any copy of the instrument and there

is no scope for the inclusion of the copy of the document for the

purpose of the Act, 1899. The copy of the instrument within the


6 (1971) 1 SCC 545

7 (2007) 8 SCC 514
                                                                     14


meaning of Section 2(14) of the Act, 1899 cannot be validated by

impounding and it cannot be admitted as secondary evidence under

the Act, 1899.

19. Mr. Banerjee further submits that the very question raised for

consideration of this Court as to whether the arbitral agreement is

valid or is in existence in law, is not open to be examined at the pre-

referral stage for the reason that original instrument is not on record

(arbitral agreement) and a conjoint reading of Sections 33 and 35 is

not concerned with any copy of the instrument and the party can

only be allowed to rely on the document in evidence which is an

instrument withing the meaning of Section 2(14) and the validity of

the document is always open to be examined at the post-referral

stage by the Arbitrator/Arbitral Tribunal in its jurisdiction vested in

Section 16 of the Act, 1996.

20. Mr. Gagan Sanghi, learned counsel for the appellant, submits

that Section 35 of the Act, 1899 bars admission of unduly stamped

“instrument” in evidence “for any purpose” and also “acting upon it”

and it was held by this Court in Government of Andhra Pradesh
                                                                     15


and Others v P. Laxmi Devi(Smt.)8 that “shall” in Section 33 of the

Act, 1899 is mandatory and unstamped document must be

impounded. Even assuming that stamp duty is not payable on an

arbitration agreement under the Act, 1899, when arbitration

agreement is contained as a clause in an instrument on which stamp

duty is payable, such arbitration agreement as an instrument,

attracts the bar of Section 35 of the Act, 1899.

21. Mr. Sanghi further submits that separation of agreement from

the substantive contract is nothing but a legal fiction created by

Section 16 of the Act, 1996 and it cannot be an exception to Section

35 of the Act, 1899.

22. Mr. Sanghi further submits that the Doctrine of Separability

and Kompetenz - Kompetenz has no bearing on the issue of

enforceability of an arbitration agreement when proper stamp duty is

not paid on the instrument containing the arbitration agreement and

relied upon the judgment of the UK Supreme Court in Enka Insaat

Ve Sanayi AS v OOO Insurance Company Chubb9 where it was held

that an “arbitration clause is nonetheless part of bundle of rights and


8 (2008) 4 SCC 720

9 (2020) UK SC 38
                                                                           16


obligations recorded in the contractual document” and according to

him, the issue of stamping is to be looked into at the very threshold,

even if it is in exercise of Section 11 (6A), i.e. at the time of pre-arbitral

stage with respect to appointment of arbitrator. According to him,

an instrument would exist in law only when it is enforceable and

“existence” defined in Section 11(6A) of the Act, 1996 in respect of an

arbitration agreement, has to be a valid enforceable agreement and

it is always open to examine the issue of non-stamping or of

insufficiently stamped at the initial/pre-referral stage itself and

further highlighting three modes as provided in M/s. N.N. Global

Mercantile Private Limited (supra) i.e. impounding, payment of

stamp duty and appointment of arbitrator, on an application filed

under Section 11 of the Act, 1996, the Court is certainly “acting

upon” the arbitration clause which is contended to be barred by the

clear expression of Section 35 of the Act, 1899 and an Agreement,

unless enforceable by law, cannot be termed to be in existence under

Section 11(6A) of the Act, 1996.

23. Ms. Malvika Trivedi, learned senior counsel, who appears for

the intervenor in I.A. No.18516 of 2022, submits that the regimes of

the Act, 1899 and Act, 1908 are completely different. M/s. N.N.
                                                                    17


Global Mercantile Private Limited (supra) wrongly applied the

principles of registration of a document to the requirement of

stamping a document. While the former is a curable defect, the latter

determines     the    very   existence     and   completion    of   a

document/instrument. In the absence of registration, an instrument

shall remain in existence but without stamping, the instrument is

incomplete/inchoate.

24. Ms. Trivedi further submits that the Act, 1899 envisages the

payment of stamp duty, failing which the instrument, according to

her, cannot be acted upon for any purpose and there is no ambiguity

in the language of the Statute and we have to follow the golden

principles of interpretation of the Statute.

25. Ms. Trivedi further submits that the powers of the Court under

different provisions of law as well as the restrictions created in the

Act, 1899 apply to the proceedings conducted in accordance with

Section 9 of the Act, 1996 and submits that even if the arbitration

clause stands severed, the Court will have to reach a prima facie

conclusion as to whether the substantive contract which contained
                                                                     18


the clause of arbitration is enforceable in law before granting interim

measures invoking Section 9 of the Act, 1996.

26. Mr. Debesh Panda, learned counsel for the Intervenor in I.A. No.

199969 of 2022 submits that Part I of Act, 1996 deals with Sections

8, 9 and 11, whereas Section 45 is dealt within Part II. Section 45

has been recognized as a provision under Part II which is a complete

code. The expression “unless it finds” in Section 45 was interpreted

by majority in Shin-Etsu Chemical Co. Ltd. v Aksh Optifibre Ltd.

and Another10 as a consideration on a prima facie basis. In 2019,

Parliament amended Section 45 by substituting the expression

“unless it finds” with “unless it prima facie finds”, that brings the

statute in line with the position settled in Shin Etsu (supra). In this

background, the Act, 1899 merely creates a temporary infliction till

the stamp duty is recovered, with or without penalty. The affliction

only attaches to the instrument and not the transaction.

27. Mr.    K.   Ramakanth     Reddy,   learned   senior   counsel   for

respondent no.1 took us through the relevant Lok Sabha debates

before the enactment of the Act, 1996 and taking assistance thereof



10 (2005) 7 SCC 234
                                                                    19


submits that the provisions of the Act 1996, Act 1899 and the

Contract Act, 1872 (hereinafter being referred to as “Act, 1872”) has

to be harmonized. Section 17 of Act, 1899 has to be read with Section

31 of the Act, 1899. The plain language of Section 7 of the Act, 1996

does not require that the parties are under an obligation to stamp

the agreement. The legislative intention would be defeated, if the

Court insist on non-core technical requirements such as stamps,

seals and originals for the purpose of acting upon the arbitration

agreement at a pre-arbitration stage for appointment of an arbitrator

invoking power under Section 11(6A) of the Act, 1996.

28. Learned counsel for the respondents, further submits that in

the instant facts of the case, an application was filed under Section

8 for reference of disputes to arbitration and it was not maintainable

under Section 34 of the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958 which is

almost pari materia to the Act, 1899.      The work order being an

unstamped document could not be received in evidence for any

purpose, or acted upon, unless it is duly stamped. In consequence

thereof, the arbitration clause in the unstamped agreement also

could not be acted upon or enforced since the arbitration clause

would have no existence in law, unless the applicable stamp duty
                                                                      20


(and penalty, if any) is paid on the work order and placed reliance on

the judgment of this Court in Garware Wall Ropes Limited(supra).

29. Learned counsel further submits that the High Court, while

relying on the application under Section 8 had enforced a non-

existent arbitration clause which is in violation of Section 34 of the

Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958 and further contended that the

respondent had not indicated its willingness to pay the stamp duty,

even though, at later stage, an objection was raised and, therefore,

no justification arises to grant any further opportunity to now pay

the stamp duty under the clause of arbitration.

30. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and with their

assistance perused the material available on record and before

delving into the reference, we feel apposite to discuss the statutory

provisions related to the reference.


III. Requirements under the Indian Stamp Act, 1899

31. The Act, 1899 is a fiscal statute laying down the law relating to

tax levied in the form of stamps on instruments recording

transactions. The stamp duties on instruments specified in Entry 91

of List I(Union List) of Schedule VII of the Constitution of India (viz.
                                                                                 21


Bills of Exchange, cheques, promissory notes, bills of lading, letters

of credit, policies of insurance, transfer of shares, debentures,

proxies and receipts) are levied by the Union Government. Similarly,

the stamp duties on instruments other than those mentioned in

Entry 91 of the Union List above are levied by the States as per Entry

63 of List II(State List) of the Schedule VII. Provisions other than

those relating to rates of duty fall within the legislative power of both

the Union and the States by virtue of Entry 44 of the List

III(Concurrent List).        However, the stamp duties on all the

instruments are collected and kept by the concerned States.

32. The term ‘Instrument’ has been defined under Section 2(14) of

the Act, 1899 and the ‘Instrument chargeable to Duty’ is provided

under Section 3 whereas Section 17 provides that all instruments

chargeable with duty and executed by any person in India has to be

stamped.

33. Sections 2(14), 3 and 17 of the Act, 1899 are extracted

hereunder: -

     “2(14) ― Instrument”. — instrument includes every document by
     which any right or liability is, or purports to be, created, transferred,
     limited, extended, extinguished or recorded:
                                                                         22
3. Instruments chargeable with duty. —Subject to the provisions
of this Act and the exemptions contained in Schedule I, the following
instruments shall be chargeable with duty of the amount indicated
in that Schedule as the proper duty therefore respectively, that is to
say—

      (a) every instrument mentioned in that Schedule which,
      not having been previously executed by any person, is
      executed in [India] on or after the first day of July, 1899;

      (b) every bill of exchange [payable otherwise than on
      demand] or promissory note drawn or made out of
      [India] on or after that day and accepted or paid, or
      presented for acceptance or payment, or endorsed,
      transferred or otherwise negotiated, in [India]; and

      (c) every instrument (other than a bill of exchange, or
      promissory note) mentioned in that Schedule, which,
      not having been previously executed by any person, is
      executed out of [India] on or after that day, relates to
      any property situate, or to any matter or thing done or
      to be done, in [India] and is received in [India]:

Provided that no duty shall be chargeable in respect of— (1) any
instrument executed by, or on behalf of, or in favour of, the
Government in cases where, but for this exemption, the Government
would be liable to pay the duty chargeable in respect of such
instrument;

(2) any instrument for the sale, transfer or other disposition, either
absolutely or by way of mortgage or otherwise, of any ship or vessel,
or any part, interest, share or property of or in any ship or vessel
registered under the Merchant Shipping Act 1894, Act No. 57 & 58
Vict. c. 60 or under Act XIX of 1838 Act No. or the Indian
Registration of Ships Act, 1841, (CX of 1841) as amended by
subsequent Acts.

17. Instruments executed in India. — All instruments chargeable
with duty and executed by any person in [India] shall be stamped
before or at the time of execution.

18. Instruments other than bills and notes executed out of
India.—(1) Every instrument chargeable with duty executed only out
of [India], and not being a bill of exchange or promissory note, may
be stamped within three months after it has been first received in
[India]. (2) Where any such instrument cannot, with reference to the
                                                                         23


     description of stamp prescribed therefore, be duly stamped by a
     private person, it may be taken within the said period of three
     months to the Collector, who shall stamp the same, in such manner
     as the [State Government] may by rule prescribe, with a stamp of
     such value as the person so taking such instrument may require
     and pay for.”


34. ‘Instrument’ as defined under Section 2(14) of the Act, 1899

includes every document by which any right or liability is, or purports

to be, created, transferred, limited, extended, extinguished, or

recorded. The term ‘Instrument’ as defined under Section 2(14) refers

to the original instrument and not a copy or a duly certified copy of

the same. It is only on production of the original instrument, the

deficiencies in the stamp duty/penalty can be paid to validate the

same.


35. Chapter IV (Section 33 to Section 48) of the Act, 1899 titled

‘Instruments not duly stamped’ provides for the procedure to be

followed when an instrument which ought to have been stamped is

not stamped.


36. Section 33 of the Act, 1899 provides for ‘Examination and

impounding of instruments’. Under sub-section (1) of Section 33,

“Every person having by law or consent of parties authority to receive

evidence, and every person in charge of a public office, except an
                                                                     24


officer of police, before whom any instrument, chargeable, in his

opinion, with duty, is produced or comes in the performance of his

functions, shall, if it appears to him that such instrument is not duly

stamped, impound the same”. Section 33(2) of the Act, 1899 provides

that every instrument chargeable with duty shall be examined by

such person as explained in sub-section (1), “in order to ascertain

whether it is stamped with a stamp of the value and description

required by the law in force in India when such instrument was

executed or first executed”. The definition of ‘duly stamped’ as

contained in Section 2(11) as applied to an instrument means that

the instrument bears an adhesive or impressed stamp of not less

than the proper amount and that such stamp has been affixed or

used in accordance with law for the time being in force in India.


37. A plain reading of Section 33 of the Act, 1899 thus explains that

when an instrument or a document is produced before the authority,

it is the duty of such authority to examine whether the instrument is

duly stamped or not, and if it is found that the instrument is not

“duly stamped” under Section 33(2), the concerned authority shall

impound the said instrument.
                                                                   25
38. Section 34 of the Act, 1899 provides a discretion to the

concerned officer that if any receipt chargeable with a duty not

exceeding “ten naye paise” is tendered to or produced before them

unstamped in the course of the audit of any public account, such

officer may in their discretion, “instead of impounding the

instrument, require a duly stamped receipt to be substituted

therefore.”


39. A plain reading of Section 35 of the Act, 1899 suggests that an

inadmissible   instrument    because    of   being   unstamped    or

insufficiently stamped may be made admissible if the relevant stamp

duty and a penalty is paid later. This shows that the requirement

under Section 35 is not rigid, and can be rectified even at a later

stage. An unstamped or insufficiently stamped instrument is not

completely invalid, and it can be made valid and admissible in

evidence after fulfilling the conditions prescribed in the proviso to

Section 35.


40. Section 37 of the Act, 1899 deals with admission of improperly

stamped instruments. It provides that the State Government may

make rules providing that, where an instrument bears a stamp of
                                                                  26


sufficient amount but of improper description, it may, on payment of

the duty with which the same is chargeable, be certified to be duly

stamped, and any instrument so certified shall then be deemed to

have been duly stamped as from the date of its execution.


41. Section 38 of the Act, 1899 provides for the procedure for how

the instruments impounded are to be dealt with. Sub-Section (1) of

Section 38 provides that when the person impounding an instrument

under Section 33 admits such instrument in evidence upon payment

of a penalty as provided by Section 35 or of duty as provided by

Section 37, he shall send to the Collector an authenticated copy of

such instrument, together with a certificate in writing, stating the

amount of duty and penalty levied in respect thereof, and shall send

such amount to the Collector, or to such person as he may appoint

in this behalf.


42. Sections 39 and 40 of the Act, 1899 provide a procedure of

exercising discretion by the Collector to either refund, certify the

instrument as duly stamped, or collect the stamp duty.


43. A plain reading of Sections 33, 35 and 2(14) of the Act, 1899

clearly demonstrates that the instrument which is not duly stamped
                                                                             27


can be impounded and when the required fee and penalty has been

paid, the said instrument can be taken as an evidence under Section

35 of the Act, 1899. But, at the same time, Sections 33 and 35 are

not concerned with any copy of the instrument and party can be

allowed to rely on the document which is an instrument within the

meaning of Section 2(14) of the Act, 1899.              This Court had an

occasion to consider the scope and ambit of Sections 33, 35 and 36

of the Act, 1899 and Section 63 of the Evidence Act, 1872 in Jupudi

Kesava Rao(supra) and it was held that:


     “13. The first limb of Section 35 clearly shuts out from evidence any
     instrument chargeable with duty unless it is duly stamped. The
     second limb of it which relates to acting upon the instrument will
     obviously shut out any secondary evidence of such instrument, for
     allowing such evidence to be let in when the original admittedly
     chargeable with duty was not stamped or insufficiently stamped,
     would be tantamount to the document being acted upon by the
     person having by law or authority to receive evidence. Proviso (a) is
     only applicable when the original instrument is actually before the
     court of law and the deficiency in stamp with penalty is paid by the
     party seeking to rely upon the document. Clearly secondary evidence
     either by way of oral evidence of the contents of the unstamped
     document or the copy of it covered by Section 63 of the Indian
     Evidence Act would not fulfil the requirements of the proviso which
     enjoins upon the authority to receive nothing in evidence except the
     instrument itself. Section 25 is not concerned with any copy of an
     instrument and a party can only be allowed to rely on a document
     which is an instrument for the purpose of Section 35. ‘Instrument’
     is defined in Section 2(14) as including every document by which
     any right or liability is, or purports to be created, transferred,
     limited, extended, extinguished or recorded. There is no scope for
     inclusion of a copy of a document as an instrument for the purpose
     of the Stamp Act.
                                                                                28
     14. If Section 35 only deals with original instruments and not copies
     Section 36 cannot be so interpreted as to allow secondary evidence
     of an instrument to have its benefit. The words ‘an instrument’ in
     Section 36 must have the same meaning as that in Section 35. The
     legislature only relented from the strict provisions of Section 35 in
     cases where the original instrument was admitted in evidence
     without objection at the initial stage of a suit or proceeding. In other
     words, although the objection is based on the insufficiency of the
     stamp affixed to the document, a party who has a right to object to
     the reception of it must do so when the document is first tendered.
     Once the time for raising objection to the admission of the
     documentary evidence is passed, no objection based on the same
     ground can be raised at a later stage. But this in no way extends
     the applicability of Section 36 to secondary evidence adduced or
     sought to be adduced in proof of the contents of a document which
     is unstamped or insufficiently stamped.”
                                                           (Emphasis added)

44. This view has been affirmed by a three-Judge Bench of this

Court in Hariom Agrawal(supra) wherein it has been held as under:

     “10. It is clear from the decisions of this Court and a plain reading
     of Sections 33, 35 and 2(14) of the Act that an instrument which is
     not duly stamped can be impounded and when the required fee and
     penalty has been paid for such instrument it can be taken in
     evidence under Section 35 of the Stamp Act. Sections 33 or 35 are
     not concerned with any copy of the instrument and party can only
     be allowed to rely on the document which is an instrument within
     the meaning of Section 2(14). There is no scope for the inclusion of
     the copy of the document for the purposes of the Stamp Act. Law is
     now no doubt well settled that copy of the instrument cannot be
     validated by impounding and this cannot be admitted as secondary
     evidence under the Stamp Act, 1899.”
                                                        (Emphasis added)

45. Law on the subject is well settled that duly certified

copy/photocopy of the alleged instrument cannot be validated by

impounding and this cannot be admitted in evidence under the Act,

1899. It leads to the conclusion that the deficiency in an instrument,
                                                                                29


whether it is unduly stamped or insufficiently stamped, can be

rectified through a procedure as prescribed under the Act, 1899. It

clearly indicates that the requirement under the Act can indeed be

fulfilled even after the time when the instrument was executed. The

requirement under the Act is not rigid or strict, so as to make the

instrument invalid at the first instance.


46. It also shows that the purpose of the Act, 1899 is not to declare

an instrument as completely invalid if it is unstamped or

insufficiently stamped, but to collect the stamp duty on each

instrument. The object of the Act, 1899 is to secure revenue for the

state.


47. This Court, in the case of Hindustan Steel Ltd. v. Messrs Dilip

Construction Company,11 dealt with the object of the Act, 1899 and

held:


        “7. The Stamp Act is a fiscal measure enacted to secure revenue for
        the State on certain classes of instruments: It is not enacted to arm
        a litigant with a weapon of technicality to meet the case of his
        opponent. The stringent provisions of the Act are conceived in the
        interest of the revenue once that object is secured according to law,
        the party staking his claim on the instrument will not be defeated
        on the ground of the initial defect in the instrument. Viewed in that
        light the scheme is clear. Section 35 of the Stamp Act operates as a

11 (1969) 1 SCC 597
                                                                          30


     bar to an unstamped instrument being admitted in evidence or being
     acted upon; Section 40 provides the procedure for instruments
     being impounded, sub-section (1) of Section 42 provides for
     certifying that an instrument is duly stamped, and sub-section (2)
     of Section 42 enacts the consequences resulting from such
     certification.”

48. The Bench, after explaining that the scope of the Act, 1899 is to

secure revenue for the state and not to be used as means to harass

the litigant, concluded that unstamped instruments can be acted

upon after payment of duty and penalty. Initial defects can be cured

and it is never the intention of the legislature to treat an initially

unstamped instrument as non-est in law.

49. The Statute deals with the instances of failure to stamp a

document which has got to be stamped under the provisions of the

Act, 1899 but does not affect the validity of the transaction embodied

in the document. That Part IV of the Act, 1899 deals with the

contingencies of non-payment of stamp duties and once the object of

securing the interest of the revenue of State is secured, the claim

based on instrument can always be acted upon on payment of the

requisite stamp duty.

50. We, therefore, hold that the deficiencies under the Act, 1899

can be fulfilled, and do not render any instrument invalid
                                                                    31


permanently. Now, it is to be seen whether the Court or Arbitral

Tribunal can order rectification of the deficiencies under the Act

1899, if any.

IV.   Historical Background of Arbitration in India

51. Arbitration can be understood as a procedure of dispute

resolution in which the dispute is submitted, by the agreement of the

parties, to the appointed Arbitrator or the Arbitral Tribunal who are

having the jurisdiction to resolve the dispute in accordance with the

applicable law as agreed among the parties. Alternatively, it can be

understood as a mechanism to adjudicate disputes between the

parties outside the court in a quasi-judicial manner.

52. The process of arbitration as a preferable method of dispute

resolution is not new in India. According to the scholars of the

ancient Hindu literature, “Brhadaranayaka Upanishad” is the

earliest known treatise that mentions a system that can be closely

associated with present-day arbitration as the same involved various

arbitral bodies such as “Puga” or the local courts, “Srenis” or the

people carrying out the same profession and “Kulas” or members

concerned with the social matters of the same part of the society. All
                                                                              32


the above-explained bodies were called the Panchas and cumulatively

formed Panchayat. The same has been affirmed by the Privy Council

in the case of Vytla Sitanna v. Marivada Viranna12 wherein it was

observed that the parties used to refer the dispute to the elected

panchayat and these adjudicating bodies were responsible to pass

the award which was based on the principle of fair and equitable

settlement of the dispute based on the prevalent legal as well as moral

grounds.

53. The arbitration regime in India further evolved with the

enactment of the first Bengal Regulation by the Britishers in the year

of 1772. Subsequent to this enactment, all the disputes were

submitted to arbitration and the award of the same had the same

value as that of any decree passed by the Court. Further, the Bengal

Regulation of 1781 also contained provision as reproduced herein:

       “The judge do recommend and so far as he can without compulsion
       prevail upon the parties to submit to the arbitration of one person,
       to be mutually agreed upon by the parties … No award of any
       arbitrator be set aside, except upon full proof, made by oath of two
       creditable witnesses that the arbitrators had been guilty of gross
       corruption or partially, in the course of which they had made their
       award.”13


12 AIR 1934 PC 105.

13 C. V. Nagarjuna Reddy, Role of Arbitration in the Wake of CPC (Amendment)

Act,       1999,       The       Indian       Council        of      Arbitration,
                                                                       33
54. It is quite evident from the above-mentioned clause that the

Bengal Regulations contained provisions to enable the parties to refer

the dispute to be settled by the process of arbitration as per the

mutual agreement of the parties, especially in disputes involving

breach of the contractual obligations and partnership deeds.

Arbitration also found a place in the earliest enacted legislation by

the State i.e., Code of Civil Procedure, 1859. Specifically, the

provision in Schedule II of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908

contained the procedure relating to arbitration. These statutory

provisions primarily dealt with two types of arbitrations:

       i) Arbitration initiated by the Courts in any pending civil

          suit.

       ii) Arbitration wherein there is no involvement or

          intervention of the Court.

55. Apart from these two types of arbitration, there evolved a third

kind of arbitration known as “Statutory Arbitration” wherein the




https://www.icaindia.co.in/icanet/quterli/apr-june2002/ica5.html     (Last
accessed on 22nd January, 2023 at 10:50 pm).
                                                                     34


procedure of arbitration is governed by the provisions contained in

the statute.

56. The major development in the arbitration regime came with the

enactment of the Arbitration Act, 1899 which was quite comparable

to the English Arbitration Act, 1899. This enactment can be

understood as the first step in the direction of enforcement of

arbitration in India.     The Arbitration Act, 1899 was initially

applicable to all the presidency towns and there existed judicial

intervention right from the initial reference of the dispute to the

process of arbitration.

57. With the rapidly changing times, the evolution of the arbitration

regime in India also gained momentum. The Code of Civil Procedure,

1908 was amended to insert the provision contained under Section

89 which exclusively dealt with the applicability and enforceability of

the arbitration. In the early 20th century, arbitration emerged as an

acceptable mode of dispute resolution and in order to meet its

growing popularity, the Arbitration Act, 1940(hereinafter being

referred to as the “Act, 1940”) was enacted by the legislature. The

Act, 1940 was enacted with the primary motive of providing speedy
                                                                              35


and less costly method of dispute resolution in the form of

arbitration. However, there existed many inadequacies in the

practical application of the provisions contained in the Act, 1940.

58. The Act, 1940 contained many provisions similar to the

provisions contained under the English Arbitration Act, 1934 but still

it did not have any provision for enforceability of the foreign award.

Also, the provisions contained in the Act, 1940 facilitated the

intervention of the judiciary at all the three stages of the arbitral

proceedings, i.e., before the dispute was referred to the arbitration,

during the pendency of the arbitral proceedings and after passing the

arbitral award.

59. The ineffective functioning of the provision contained under the

Act, 1940 was regularly criticised by the Judiciary. The following

observation by Justice D.A. Desai in the case of Guru Nanak

Foundation v. Rattan Singh and Sons14 is quite relevant to be

mentioned here:

     “1. Interminable, time consuming, complex and expensive Court
     procedures impelled jurists to search for an alternative Forum, less
     formal, more effective and speedy for resolution of disputes, avoiding
     procedural claptrap and this led them to Arbitration Act, 1940.
     However, the way in which the proceedings under the Act are

14 (1981) 4 SCC 634
                                                                         36


     conducted and without an exception challenged in Courts, has made
     Lawyers laugh and legal philosophers weep.”



60. This Court further observed in the case of Food Corporation of

India v. Joginderpal Mohinderpal and Another15 that the law

governing arbitration is supposed to be less technical and more

suitable to practical problems by ascertaining equity and fair play in

the entire process. Despite such severe criticism by this Court, no

amendment was brought in the Act, 1940 by the legislature for a long

period of time.

61. It was only by the late 20th century, there came a major shift in

the development of arbitration in India. Due to the economic

liberalization and alike policies of the government in 1991, there was

a need felt to create a conducive environment for attracting foreign

investments. Therefore, based on the 76th Report of the Law

Commission of India as well as the Model UNCITRAL law, the Act,

1996 was enacted by the legislature. The Act,1996 came into force

from 16th August, 1996 with an object of making the process of




15 (1989) 2 SCC 347
                                                                       37


arbitration cost effective, less technical and in accordance with the

prevalent international practices across the world.

V. Intent behind incorporation of Section 11(6A) of the

Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996


62. A major shift for the development of arbitration in India

happened with the enactment of the Act, 1996. Based on the 76 th

Report16 of the Law Commission of India as well as the Model

UNCITRAL law, the Act, 1996 was enacted with an object of making

the process of arbitration cost effective, less technical and in

accordance with the prevalent international practices across the

world.   The legislative intent was to provide effective and speedy

procedure for dispute resolution among the parties as well as to limit

the scope of judicial intervention in the process of arbitration.17 India

is gradually moving in the direction of minimal judicial intervention

keeping abreast with the developments of arbitration in other

regimes.




16 Law Commission of India, 76th Report on Arbitration Act, 1940

17Paragraph No. 4(v), Statement of Objects and Reasons, Arbitration and
Conciliation Act, 1996.
                                                                              38
63. The Constitution Bench of this Court while examining the pre

2015 amendment regime in SBP & Co. v. Patel Engineering Ltd.

and Another18 held that all the preliminary or threshold issues

pertaining to jurisdiction of the Arbitrator/Arbitral Tribunal should

be examined by the Court under Section 11 of the Act, 1996. This

position of law was sought to be changed by the Law Commission in

its 246th Report, which states as follows:


     “In so far as the nature of intervention is concerned, it is
     recommended that in the event the Court/Judicial Authority is
     prima facie satisfied against the argument challenging the
     arbitration agreement, it shall appoint the arbitrator and/or refer
     the parties to arbitration, as the case may be. The amendment
     envisages that the judicial authority shall not refer the parties to
     arbitration only if it finds that there does not exist an arbitration
     agreement or that it is null and void. If the judicial authority is of
     the opinion that prima facie the arbitration agreement exists,
     then it shall refer the dispute to arbitration, and leave the
     existence of the arbitration agreement to be finally determined
     by the arbitral tribunal.        However, if the judicial authority
     concludes that the agreement does not exist, then the conclusion
     will be final and not prima facie. The amendment also envisages that
     there shall be a conclusive determination as to whether the
     arbitration agreement is null and void.”19
                                                       (Emphasis added)




18 (2005) 8 SCC 618

19LAW COMMISSION OF INDIA Report No. 246 Amendments to the Arbitration
and Conciliation Act 1996, pg. 43
                                                                          39
64. In the said report, the Law Commission of India concluded that

the judicial intervention in arbitration proceedings adds significantly

to the delay in the arbitration process and ultimately negates the

benefit of arbitration. At paragraph 24, the Law Commission noted

as follows: “…[I]t is observed that a lot of time is spent for appointment

of arbitrators at the very threshold of arbitration proceedings.”20


65. The Law Commission suggested the insertion of sub-Section

(6A) to Section 11 in the Act, 1996 which was accepted by the

Legislature by way of the 2015 amendment to the Act, 1996. Section

11(6A) unambiguously by its intention manifests that “[the] Supreme

Court or, as the case may be, the High Court, while examining an

application under sub-section (4) or sub-section (5) or sub-section

(6), shall, notwithstanding any judgment, decree or order of any

Court, confine to examine only to the “existence of an arbitration

agreement”.


66. The 2015 amendment, including Section 11(6A), and the later

amendments      are   in   line   with   this   evolution   of   arbitration

jurisprudence. With the series of amendments to the principal Act,


20 Paragraph No. 24, Report No. 246, Law Commission of India.
                                                                              40


1996, it is quite evident that the legislature is continuously engaging

with the rapidly evolving arbitration regime in India and the various

challenges allied it with the object to reduce the scope of intervention

by the courts in the arbitration processes. It can be expected that

the arbitration in India is conducted in accordance with the following

views expressed by Justice Sabyasachi Mukharji in the case of Food

Corporation of India(supra):

     “7. We should make the law of arbitration simple, less technical and
     more responsible to the actual realities of the situation, but must be
     responsive to the canons of justice and fair play and make the
     arbitrator adhere to such process and norms which will create
     confidence, not only by doing justice between the parties, but by
     creating a sense that justice appears to have been done.”


The above discussed approach of the legislature has been

acknowledged by this Court.

67. In the case of Duro Felguera, S.A. v. Gangavaram Port

Limited21, this Court explained the scope and effect of the changes

brought in by the 2015 amendment in the following words:

     “48….. From a reading of Section 11(6-A), the intention of the
     legislature is crystal clear i.e. the court should and need only look
     into one aspect—the existence of an arbitration agreement. What are
     the factors for deciding as to whether there is an arbitration
     agreement is the next question. The resolution to that is simple—it
     needs to be seen if the agreement contains a clause which provides



21 (2017) 9 SCC 729
                                                                                41


     for arbitration pertaining to the disputes which have arisen between
     the parties to the agreement…

     59. The scope of the power under Section 11(6) of the 1996 Act was
     considerably wide in view of the decisions in SBP and Co. [SBP and
     Co. v. Patel Engg. Ltd., (2005) 8 SCC 618] and Boghara Polyfab
     [National Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Boghara Polyfab (P) Ltd., (2009) 1
     SCC 267. This position continued till the amendment brought about
     in 2015. After the amendment, all that the courts need to see is
     whether an arbitration agreement exists—nothing more, nothing
     less. The legislative policy and purpose is essentially to minimise the
     Court's intervention at the stage of appointing the arbitrator and
     this intention as incorporated in Section 11(6-A) ought to be
     respected.”
                                                         (Emphasis added)


68. This position was affirmed by a three-judge bench in Mayavati

Trading Private Limited v. Pradyuat Deb Burman22:

     “10. This being the position, it is clear that the law prior to the 2015
     Amendment that has been laid down by this Court, which would
     have included going into whether accord and satisfaction has taken
     place, has now been legislatively overruled. This being the position,
     it is difficult to agree with the reasoning contained in the aforesaid
     judgment [United India Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Antique Art Exports (P)
     Ltd., (2019) 5 SCC 362], as Section 11(6-A) is confined to the
     examination of the existence of an arbitration agreement and is to
     be understood in the narrow sense as has been laid down in the
     judgment in Duro Felguera, S.A.…,”
                                                          (Emphasis added)

69. Thus, the 2015 amendment aims to limit the intervention of

Courts to minimal examining the existence and not the validity of an

arbitration agreement at the pre-referral stage of the arbitration

proceedings.


22 (2019) 8 SCC 714
                                                                              42


VI. Scope of Section 11(6A) w.r.t. Section 8, Section 16 and
Section 45 of Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996


70. Section 11(6A) of the Act, 1996 reads as follows:

     “The Supreme Court or, as the case may be, the High Court, while
     considering any application under sub-section (4) or sub-section (5)
     or sub-section (6), shall, notwithstanding any judgment, decree or
     order of any Court, confine to the examination of the existence of an
     arbitration agreement.”


71. The scope of inquiry under Section 11(6A) is restricted to

examine the “existence of an arbitration agreement”. The phrase

‘existence of an arbitration agreement’ is to be understood in a literal

sense keeping the intention of the legislature after the introduction

of the 2015 amendment. The position of law that prevails after the

insertion of 2015 amendment is that there should be minimal

interference by the Courts. The limited scope of the Court to examine

at the pre-referral stage is whether the arbitration agreement, prima

facie, exists as referred to under Section 7 of the Act, 1996 which

includes determination of the following factors:

     (i)    Whether the arbitration agreement is in writing;

     (ii)   Whether    the    core   contractual ingredients         qua     the

            arbitration agreement are fulfilled?
                                                                                43
     (iii)   On rare occasions, on a serious note of objection, if any, it

             may examine whether the subject matter of dispute is

             arbitrable?

72. Section 8(1), which was replaced by the amendment of 2015,

mandates a judicial authority to refer parties to arbitration unless

there is prima facie finding that no valid arbitration agreement exists.

The language used in the provision is as follows:


     “8. Power to refer parties to arbitration where there is an
     arbitration agreement.—

     (1)A judicial authority, before which an action is brought in a matter
     which is the subject of an arbitration agreement shall, if a party to
     the arbitration agreement or any person claiming through or under
     him, so applies not later than the date of submitting his first
     statement on the substance of the dispute, then, notwithstanding
     any judgment, decree or order of the Supreme Court or any Court,
     refer the parties to arbitration unless it finds that prima facie no
     valid arbitration agreement exists.

     (2) The application referred to in sub-section (1) shall not be
     entertained unless it is accompanied by the original arbitration
     agreement or a duly certified copy thereof:

     [Provided that where the original arbitration agreement or a certified
     copy thereof is not available with the party applying for reference to
     arbitration under sub-section (1), and the said agreement or certified
     copy is retained by the other party to that agreement, then, the party
     so applying shall file such application along with a copy of the
     arbitration agreement and a petition praying the Court to call upon
     the other party to produce the original arbitration agreement or its
     duly certified copy before that Court.]

     (3) Notwithstanding that an application has been made under sub-
     section (1) and that the issue is pending before the judicial authority,
                                                                              44


      an arbitration may be commenced or continued and an arbitral
      award made.”



73. The Section provides that the Court can examine, whether

prima facie there does not exist an arbitration agreement. The scope

of this Section can be seen from the 246th Law Commission Report23,

which made the following note while suggesting amendment to

Section 8:

      “….of the amendment contemplates a two-step process to be
      adopted by a judicial authority when considering an application
      seeking the reference of a pending action to arbitration. The
      amendment envisages that the judicial authority shall not refer
      the parties to arbitration only if it finds that there does not
      exist an arbitration agreement or that it is null and void. If the
      judicial authority is of the opinion that prima facie the arbitration
      agreement exists, then it shall refer the dispute to arbitration, and
      leave the existence of the arbitration agreement to be finally
      determined by the arbitral tribunal. However, if the judicial
      authority concludes that the agreement does not exist, then the
      conclusion will be final and not prima facie. The amendment also
      envisages that there shall be a conclusive determination as to
      whether the arbitration agreement is null and void.”


74. A plain reading of the Section 8 indicates that it limits the

intervention of the Court to only one aspect i.e., when it finds that

prima facie no valid arbitration agreement exists or is null and void.




23 LAW COMMISSION OF INDIA Report No. 246 Amendments to the Arbitration

and Conciliation Act 1996, pg. 43
                                                                           45
75. The scheme of the Act, 1996 manifests that Sections 8 and 11

are complementary in nature and both relate to reference to

arbitration and have the same scope and ambit with respect to

judicial interference. The Court, under Sections 8 and 11, has to

refer the matter to arbitration or to appoint an Arbitrator, provided

the party has established a prima facie existence of an arbitration

agreement, nothing more nothing less. At the same time, the Court

should refer the matter if the validity of the arbitration agreement

cannot be determined on a prima facie basis, as laid down above i.e.

“when in doubt, do refer”.

76. At this stage, we would like to observe that the statutory scheme

has been framed for appointment of an Arbitrator by various High

Courts and also by this Court - called the Appointment of Arbitrators

by the Chief Justice of India Scheme, 1996, the relevant portion of

the same is extracted hereunder:-

     1. Short title. -This Scheme may be called The Appointment of
     Arbitrators by the Chief Justice of India Scheme, 1996.

     2. Submission of request. - The request to the Chief Justice under
     sub-section (4) or sub-section (5) or sub-section (6) of section 11
     shall be made in writing and shall be accompanied by-
     (a) the original arbitration agreement or a duly certified copy
         thereof;
                                                                             46
     (b) the names and addresses of the parties to the arbitration
        agreement;
     (c) the names and addresses of the arbitrators, if any, already
         appointed;
     (d) the name and address of the person or institution, if any, to
         whom or which any function has been entrusted by the parties
         to the arbitration agreement under the appointment procedure
         agreed upon by them;
     (e) the qualifications required, if any, of the arbitrators by the
         agreement of the parties;
     (f) a brief written statement describing the general nature of the
         dispute and the points at issue;
     (g) the relief or remedy sought; and
     (h) an affidavit, supported by the relevant document, to the effect
         that the condition to be satisfied under sub-section (4) or sub-
         section (5) or sub-section (6) of section 11, as the case may be,
         before making the request to the Chief Justice, has been
         satisfied.

77. It is clear from the scheme of which a reference has been made

that while the applicant approaches the Court for appointment of an

Arbitrator, he is not supposed to file an original arbitration

agreement and attested copy of the agreement can be annexed at the

pre-referral stage which is indeed not an instrument as referred to

under Section 2(14) of the Act, 1899.

78. So far as the reference made of submitting a certified copy of

the arbitration agreement is concerned, suffice it to say, that

arbitration agreement executed between the parties relating to the

business/commercial transactions is not required to be compulsorily
                                                                    47


registered under the Act, 1908.      The obligation to register the

document is invoked under provisions of the substantive law,

namely, Transfer of Property Act, 1882, while Section 17 of the Act,

1908 mandates that the non-testamentary instrument that created

any right, title or interest of the value of Rs.100/- or upwards in an

immovable property must be compulsorily registered. If document is

not registered, transfer is void, there is no valid transfer, and the

property described in the instrument does not pass on, for example,

mortgage does not become complete and enforceable until it is

registered under the Act, 1908.

79. Indisputably, the arbitration agreement is not a public

document to which compulsory registration as referred to under

Section 17 of the Act, 1908 is required and one can obtain a certified

copy of the public document under Sections 74 or 75 of the Evidence

Act, 1872.    The Public Officer having the custody of a public

document can make available its certified copy as referred to under

Section 76 of the Evidence Act, 1872.        In the absence of the

arbitration agreement being required to be compulsorily registered,

within the scope and ambit of Section 17 of the Act, 1908, such

arbitration agreement/document is not accessible in public domain
                                                                               48


and is not a public document of which certified copy can be obtained,

as referred to under Section 74 of the Evidence Act, 1872, failing

which the question of presumption as to genuineness of document

purporting to be a certified copy as referred to under Section 79 of

the Evidence Act, 1872 may not arise.

80. In other words, when the arbitration agreement is not required

to be compulsorily registered as referred to under Section 17 of the

Act, 1908 the reference of a certified copy under the Scheme of Rules,

1996 appears to be of an authenticated copy of the arbitration

agreement that qualifies the requirement of Section 7 of the Act, 1996

at the pre-referral stage for the purposes of appointment of an

Arbitrator under Section 11(6A) of the Act, 1996. Hence, the question

of raising objection regarding the arbitration agreement not being

stamped or insufficiently stamped at the pre-referral stage may not

arise.

81. Section 16 of the Act, 1996 is referred to as under:-

     “16. Competence of arbitral tribunal to rule on its jurisdiction. — (1)
     The arbitral tribunal may rule on its own jurisdiction, including
     ruling on any objections with respect to the existence or validity of
     the arbitration agreement, and for that purpose,—
                                                                                 49
     (a) an arbitration clause which forms part of a contract shall be
     treated as an agreement independent of the other terms of the
     contract; and

     (b) a decision by the arbitral tribunal that the contract is null and
     void shall not entail ipso jure the invalidity of the arbitration clause.

     (2) A plea that the arbitral tribunal does not have jurisdiction shall
     be raised not later than the submission of the statement of defence;
     however, a party shall not be precluded from raising such a plea
     merely because that he has appointed, or participated in the
     appointment of, an arbitrator.

     (3) A plea that the arbitral tribunal is exceeding the scope of its
     authority shall be raised as soon as the matter alleged to be beyond
     the scope of its authority is raised during the arbitral proceedings.

     (4) The arbitral tribunal may, in either of the cases referred to in
     sub-section (2) or sub-section (3), admit a later plea if it considers
     the delay justified.

     (5) The arbitral tribunal shall decide on a plea referred to in sub-
     section (2) or sub-section (3) and, where the arbitral tribunal takes
     a decision rejecting the plea, continue with the arbitral proceedings
     and make an arbitral award.

     (6) A party aggrieved by such an arbitral award may make an
     application for setting aside such an arbitral award in accordance
     with section 34.”


82. Section 16(1) of the Act, 1996 envisaged that an Arbitral

Tribunal can rule upon own jurisdiction, “including ruling on any

objection with respect to the existence or validity of the arbitration

agreement”. The provision is based on the doctrine of Kompetenz-

Kompetenz and the doctrine of Separability. The doctrine of

Kompetenz-Kompetenz means that the Arbitral Tribunal is competent
                                                                          50


enough to rule on its own jurisdiction. At the same time, the Doctrine

of Separability severs the arbitration clause from the commercial

contract. Section 16(1)(a) presupposes the existence of a clause of

arbitration and mandates the same to be treated as independent to

the other terms of the contract.        Under Section 16, the Arbitral

Tribunal shall have the jurisdiction to determine the validity of the

arbitration agreement.


83. A division Bench of this Court in Uttarakhand Purv Sainik

Kalyan Nigam Limited v. Northern Coal Field Limited24 while

placing reliance on Duro Felguera (supra) held that issues related

to limitation must be raised before the Arbitral Tribunal. The Court

observed the following:


     “7.8. By virtue of the non obstante clause incorporated in Section
     11(6-A), previous judgments rendered in Patel Engg. [SBP & Co. v.
     Patel Engg. Ltd., (2005) 8 SCC 618] and Boghara Polyfab [National
     Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Boghara Polyfab (P) Ltd., (2009) 1 SCC 267],
     were legislatively overruled. The scope of examination is now
     confined only to the existence of the arbitration agreement at the
     Section 11 stage, and nothing more.”



84. What the Courts at the pre-referral stage can examine under

Section 11(6A) is only the “existence” of the arbitration agreement,


24 (2020) 2 SCC 455
                                                                            51


while the Arbitral Tribunal shall have the jurisdiction to examine

“any objections with respect to the existence or validity of the

arbitration agreement”.


85. Section 45 of the Act, 1996 provides that:

     “Power of judicial authority to refer parties to arbitration.—
     Notwithstanding anything contained in Part I or in the Code of Civil
     Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), a judicial authority, when seized of an
     action in a matter in respect of which the parties have made an
     agreement referred to in section 44, shall, at the request of one of
     the parties or any person claiming through or under him, refer the
     parties to arbitration, [unless it prima facie finds] that the said
     agreement is null and void, inoperative or incapable of being
     performed.”
                                                       (Emphasis added)

86. A plain comparison between Section 11(6A) and Section 45

manifests that the scope of Section 45 is much broader. Under

Section 45, a judicial authority has to examine whether the

agreement is “null and void”, “inoperative”, or “incapable of being

performed”.


87. This Court in World Sport Group (Mauritius) Limited v. MSM

Satellite (Singapore) Pte. Limited,25 in paras 33 to 35 explained

the difference between the terms ‘null and void’, ‘inoperative’ and

‘incapable of being performed’ as under:-


25 (2014) 11 SCC 639
                                                                         52


“33. Mr. Gopal Subramanium's contention, however, is also that the
arbitration agreement was inoperative or incapable of being
performed as allegations of fraud could be enquired into by the court
and not by the arbitrator. The authorities on the meaning of the
words “inoperative or incapable of being performed” do not support
this contention of Mr. Subramanium. The words “inoperative or
incapable of being performed” in Section 45 of the Act have been
taken from Article II(3) of the New York Convention as set out in para
27 of this judgment. Redfern and Hunter on International Arbitration
(5th Edn.) published by the Oxford University Press has explained
the meaning of these words “inoperative or incapable of being
performed” used in the New York Convention at p. 148, thus:

“At first sight it is difficult to see a distinction between the terms
‘inoperative’ and ‘incapable of being performed’. However, an
arbitration clause is inoperative where it has ceased to have effect
as a result, for example, of a failure by the parties to comply with a
time-limit, or where the parties have by their conduct impliedly
revoked the arbitration agreement. By contrast, the expression
‘incapable of being performed’ appears to refer to more practical
aspects of the prospective arbitration proceedings. It applies, for
example, if for some reason it is impossible to establish the arbitral
tribunal.”

34. Albert Jan Van Den Berg in an article titled “The New York
Convention, 1958 — An Overview” published in the website of
ICCA(www.arbitrationicca.org/media/0/12125884227980/new_yo
rk_convention_of-1958_overview.pdf), referring to Article II(3) of the
New York Convention, states:

“The words ‘null and void’ may be interpreted as referring to those
cases where the arbitration agreement is affected by some invalidity
right from the beginning, such as lack of consent due to
misrepresentation, duress, fraud or undue influence.

The word ‘inoperative’ can be said to cover those cases where the
arbitration agreement has ceased to have effect, such as revocation
by the parties.

The words ‘incapable of being performed’ would seem to apply to
those cases where the arbitration cannot be effectively set into
motion. This may happen where the arbitration clause is too vaguely
worded, or other terms of the contract contradict the parties'
intention to arbitrate, as in the case of the so-called co-equal forum
selection clauses. Even in these cases, the courts interpret the
contract provisions in favour of arbitration.”
                                                                                53
     35. The book Recognition and Conferment of Foreign Arbitral Awards
     : A Global Commentary on the New York Convention by Kronke,
     Nacimiento, et al.(ed.) (2010) at p. 82 says:

     “Most authorities hold that the same schools of thought and
     approaches regarding the term null and void also apply to the terms
     inoperative and incapable of being performed. Consequently, the
     majority of authorities do not interpret these terms uniformly,
     resulting in an unfortunate lack of uniformity. With that caveat, we
     shall give an overview of typical examples where arbitration
     agreements were held to be (or not to be) inoperative or incapable of
     being performed.

     The terms inoperative refers to cases where the arbitration
     agreement has ceased to have effect by the time the court is asked
     to refer the parties to arbitration. For example, the arbitration
     agreement ceases to have effect if there has already been an arbitral
     award or a court decision with res judicata effect concerning the
     same subject-matter and parties. However, the mere existence of
     multiple proceedings is not sufficient to render the arbitration
     agreement inoperative. Additionally, the arbitration agreement can
     cease to have effect if the time-limit for initiating the arbitration or
     rendering the award has expired, provided that it was the parties'
     intent no longer to be bound by the arbitration agreement due to the
     expiration of this time-limit.

     Finally, several authorities have held that the arbitration agreement
     ceases to have effect if the parties waive arbitration. There are many
     possible ways of waiving a right to arbitrate. Most commonly, a party
     will waive the right to arbitrate if, in a court proceeding, it fails to
     properly invoke the arbitration agreement or if it actively pursues
     claims covered by the arbitration agreement.”


88. The above explained examination does not arise in the language

of Section 11(6A). That is to say, the legislature has not borrowed the

language of Section 45 in Section 11(6A), which is limited to the

‘existence’ of the arbitration agreement.
                                                                   54


VII. Limited Examination by Court under Section 11(6A) of the

Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996


89. The limited scope of Section 11(6A) of the Act, 1996 has been

explained by a three-judge bench of this Hon’ble Court in Pravin

Electricals Private Limited v. Galaxy Infra and Engineering

Private Limited26 at para 17 placing its reliance on Vidya Drolia

and Others(supra) wherein it was held that the existence of an

arbitration agreement means an agreement which satisfies the

requirements of both the Act, 1996 and the Contract Act, 1872 and

when it is enforceable in law. The judgment in United India

Insurance     Company     Limited    and    Another     v.    Hyundai

Engineering & Construction Company Limited and Others27 was

also relied upon in Pravin Electricals Private Limited(supra) to

demonstrate that Section 11(6A) deals with “existence”, juxtaposed

to Section 16 and Section 45, which deal with “validity” of an

arbitration agreement. There indeed lies a distinction between the

“existence” and the “validity” of an arbitration agreement.




26 (2021) 5 SCC 671

27 (2018) 17 SCC 607
                                                                         55
90. The UNCITRAL Model Law also supports a distinction between

jurisdictional objections based on the alleged non-existence,

invalidity, or illegality of the arbitration agreement, and jurisdictional

objections based upon the scope of a concededly valid arbitration

agreement. 28 All issues of jurisdiction including the existence or

validity of the arbitration agreement can be decided by the Arbitral

Tribunal, whether or not appointed through the intervention of the

court under Section 16 of the Act, 1996.


VIII. Interpretation of “Existence of Arbitration Agreement”

91. In order to determine the “existence of an arbitration

agreement” under Section 11(6A), the Act, 1899 may not have a

bearing owing to the reason that at the pre-referral stage, if the

document is not duly stamped/insufficiently stamped that does not

render the arbitration agreement non-existent as discussed and

ascertained earlier. The only consideration that the courts/judicial

authority at the pre-referral stage needs to follow is the prima facie




28 UNCITRAL Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration (1985), with

amendments         as      adopted       in       2006,      Available   at:
https://uncitral.un.org/sites/uncitral.un.org/files/media-
documents/uncitral/en/19-09955_e_ebook.pdf
                                                                            56


existence of an arbitration agreement as referred under Section 7 of

the Act, 1996 which provides:

     “7. Arbitration agreement.—

     (1) In this Part, “arbitration agreement” means an agreement by the
     parties to submit to arbitration all or certain disputes which have
     arisen or which may arise between them in respect of a defined legal
     relationship, whether contractual or not.

     (2) An arbitration agreement may be in the form of an arbitration
     clause in a contract or in the form of a separate agreement.

     (3) An arbitration agreement shall be in writing.
     (4) An arbitration agreement is in writing if it is contained in—

           (a) a document signed by the parties;

           (b) an exchange of letters, telex, telegrams or other
           means of telecommunication [including communication
           through electronic means] which provide a record of the
           agreement; or
           (c) an exchange of statements of claim and defence in
           which the existence of the agreement is alleged by one
           party and not denied by the other.

     (5) The reference in a contract to a document containing an
     arbitration clause constitutes an arbitration agreement if the
     contract is in writing and the reference is such as to make that
     arbitration clause part of the contract.”



92. That is to say, the limited scope of the Court under Section

11(6A) at the pre-referral stage is to examine whether the arbitration

agreement, prima facie, exists as referred to under Section 7 of the

Act, 1996, which includes only the determination of the following

factors:
                                                                             57
     (i)     Whether the arbitration agreement is in writing?

     (ii)    Whether    the   core   contractual ingredients        qua     the

             arbitration agreement are fulfilled?

     (iii)   On rare occasions, on a serious note of objection, if any, it

             may examine whether the subject matter of dispute is

             arbitrable?

IX. Clarification on Stamping of Arbitration Agreement

93. In the reference Order and in paras 20, 24 and 58 in particular,

a reference has been made that Maharashatra Stamp Act, 1958 does

not subject to arbitration agreement to payment of stamp duty. The

relevant paragraphs of the M/S. N.N. Global Mercantile Private

Limited (supra)29 are as follows:

     “20. We have carefully perused the provisions of the Maharashtra
     Stamp Act, 1958 and Schedule I appended thereto, which enlists the
     instruments specified in Section 3, on which stamp duty is
     chargeable. We find that an arbitration agreement is not included in
     the Schedule as an instrument chargeable to stamp duty. Item 12
     of Schedule I to the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958 includes an
     award passed by an arbitrator to be chargeable for payment of
     stamp duty…..
     In Shriram EPC Ltd. v. Rioglass Solar SA [Shriram EPC Ltd. v.
     Rioglass Solar SA, (2018) 18 SCC 313], this Court held that the
     payment of stamp duty is applicable to awards made in India, but
     does not include a “foreign award” which has not been included in
     the Schedule to the Stamp Act, 1899.
     24. …Section 3 of the Maharashtra Stamp Act does not subject an
     arbitration agreement to payment of stamp duty, unlike various

29 (2021) 4 SCC 379
                                                                               58


     other agreements enlisted in the Schedule to the Act. This is for the
     obvious reason that an arbitration agreement is an agreement to
     resolve disputes arising out of a commercial agreement, through the
     mode of arbitration. On the basis of the doctrine of separability, the
     arbitration agreement being a separate and distinct agreement from
     the underlying commercial contract, would survive independent of
     the substantive contract. The arbitration agreement would not be
     rendered invalid, unenforceable or non-existent, even if the
     substantive contract is not admissible in evidence, or cannot be
     acted upon on account of non-payment of stamp duty.
     58. We consider it appropriate to refer the following issue, to be
     authoritatively settled by a Constitution Bench of five Judges of this
     Court:
     “Whether the statutory bar contained in Section 35 of the Stamp
     Act, 1899 applicable to instruments chargeable to stamp duty under
     Section 3 read with the Schedule to the Act, would also render the
     arbitration agreement contained in such an instrument, which is
     not chargeable to payment of stamp duty, as being non-existent,
     unenforceable, or invalid, pending payment of stamp duty on the
     substantive contract/instrument?”
                                                        (Emphasis added)

94. There appears to be an error in the view taken by the 3-Judge

Bench. The Schedule I to the Act, 1899 in its Article 5 titled

“Agreement or Memorandum of Agreement” has a residuary entry

which says (c) if not otherwise provided for- Eight annas. Article 5

has been reproduced as:

5. Agreement or Memorandum of an Agreement
   (a) If relating to the sale of a Bill of Exchange;      Two annas
    (b) If relating to the sale of a Government Security or Subject to maximum of
        share in an incorporated Company or other body ten rupees, one anna
        corporate                                           for every Rs. 10000/-
                                                            or part thereof of the
                                                            value of the security or
                                                            share
(c) if not otherwise provided for                           Eight annas
Exemptions
                                                                    59


Agreement or memorandum of agreement –
   (a) for or relating to the sale of goods or Merchandise
       exclusively,     not     being    a     NOTE    OR
       MEMORANDUM chargeable under No. 43;

   (b) made in the form of tenders to the Central
       Government for or relating to any loan;


95. The examination of the arbitration agreement at the stage of

Section 11(pre-referral stage) should be done cautiously in a way that

it does not breach the legislative intent behind the provisions by

opening the door wide open for judicial intervention.

96. We, however, refrain ourselves to examine the question

regarding the scope and ambit of Section 9 of the Act, 1996 of which

a reference has been made by a three-Judge Bench in M/s. N.N.

Global Mercantile Private Limited(supra) since the present

reference is not concerned to examine the scope of Section 9 of the

Act, 1996 and leave it open to be examined in the appropriate

proceedings.

X. Answer to the Reference

97. To conclude, in our view:

  i)    We accordingly hold that the existence of a copy/certified

        copy of an arbitration agreement whether unstamped/
                                                                   60


        insufficiently stamped at the pre-referral stage is an

        enforceable document for the purposes of appointment of an

        Arbitrator under Section 11(6A) of the Act, 1996 where the

        judicial intervention shall be minimal confined only to the

        prima facie examination of “existence of an arbitration

        agreement” alone keeping in view the object of 2015

        amendment and the courts must strictly adhere to the time

        schedule for the appointment of Arbitrator prescribed under

        Section 11(13) of the Act, 1996.

ii)     All the preliminary/debatable issues including insufficiently

        stamped/unduly stamped or validity of the arbitration

        agreement etc. are referrable to the Arbitrator/Arbitral

        Tribunal under Section 16 of the Act, 1996 which, by virtue

        of the Doctrine of Kompetenz - Kompetenz has the power to

        do so.

 iii)   The decision in SMS Tea Estates Private Limited(supra)

        stands overruled. Paras 22 and 29 of Garware Wall Ropes

        Limited(supra) which are approved in paras 146 and 147 in

        Vidya Drolia and Others(supra) are overruled to that extent.
                                                               61
98. The reference is answered accordingly.

99. We appreciate the contribution made by Mr. Gourab Banerjee,

Amicus Curiae in answering the reference made to this Court.




                                        ……………………………..J.
                                        (AJAY RASTOGI)


NEW DELHI;
APRIL 25, 2023.
                                                                REPORTABLE
                 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
                   CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION
               CIVIL APPEAL NOS. 3802-3803 OF 2020
M/S N.N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PVT. LTD.                     APPELLANT(S)


                                   VERSUS
M/S INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS.                        RESPONDENT(S)


                             JUDGMENT
Hrishikesh Roy, J.
   A. Introduction
   B. Reference to the Constitution Bench
   C. Facts in NN Global
   D. Modification of the reference question
   E. Submissions of Counsel
   F. Statutory scheme of the Stamp Act,1899
   G. Statutory scheme of the Arbitration Act, 1996
     i)     Evolution of law under Section 11(6) of the Arbitration Act,1996
     ii)    Post-2015 Regime: Insertion of Section 11(6A)
     iii)   Post-2019 Amendment and the Report of the High-level Committee
            to review the Institutionalisation of Arbitration in India
   H. Discussion on SMS Tea
   I. Discussion on Garware
   J. Interplay between the Stamp Act, Arbitration Act and Contract Act.
      i)    Arbitration Act is a special legislation
      ii)   Harmonious Construction
   K. Advent of Technology and the changing nature of transactions
   L. Doctrine of Separability
   M. Kompetenz Kompetenz, & the issue of judicial logjam in India
   N. Discussion on Vidya Drolia
   O. Conclusion

                                 Page 1 of 78
                                      A.     Introduction

1. I had the benefit of reading the erudite opinion of my Learned Brother, Justice

     K.M. Joseph (for himself and Justice Aniruddha Bose) and the separate

     judgment of Learned Brother Justice C.T. Ravikumar. However, I regret my

     inability to agree with the majority opinion and the concurring judgment.

     Echoing the words of Charles Evans Hughes1 in one of his lectures delivered

     at the University of Columbia, let our minority opinion (self and Learned

     Brother Justice Ajay Rastogi, who has written a separate opinion), appeal to

     the brooding spirit of the future as also the powers of the legislature to

     examine the interplay between the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (for

     short “Arbitration Act, 1996”)and the Indian Stamp Act,1899 (for short “Stamp

     Act,1899”); and to emphatically resolve the imbroglio to avoid any confusion

     in the minds of the stakeholders in the field of arbitration.

2. The role of Courts in arbitral proceedings has been much debated for years.

     Autonomy of the disputing party is the core of the arbitral process but if the

     parties fail to arrive at a consensus, the supervisory role of Courts becomes

     imperative. Redfern and Hunter on International Commercial Arbitration2

     describe the relationship between national courts and arbitral tribunals as

     follows:

          “To the extent that the relationship between national courts and arbitral
          tribunals is said to be one of ‘partnership’, it is not a partnership of equals.
          Arbitration may depend upon the agreement of the parties, but it is also a
          system built on law, which relies upon that law to make it effective both
          nationally and internationally. National Courts could exist without
          arbitration, but arbitration could not exist without the courts. The real


 1
   Charles Evans Hughes, The Supreme Court of The United States Its Foundations, Methods
 and Achievements,(Columbia University Press) 68 (1928)
 2
   Alan Redfern and Martin Hunter, Redfern and Hunter on International Arbitration (6th
 Edition, 2015, Oxford University Press), Chapter 7, Paragraph 7.03

                                         Page 2 of 78
        issue is to define the point at which this reliance of arbitration on the
        national courts begins and at which it ends.”



               [Emphasis supplied]


3. The supervisory role of Courts under the Arbitration Act,1996 can be broadly

   categorized into three parts i.e., pre-commencement of arbitral proceedings,

   during the arbitral proceedings and at the post-arbitration stage. Section 8

   and Section 11 in Part I of the Arbitration Act, 1996, and Section 45 in Part II

   of the Arbitration Act,1996 specifically deal with the role of Courts before the

   initiation of arbitration proceedings. Section 8 deals with the “Power to refer

   parties to arbitration” where there is an arbitration agreement; it provides for

   a mandatory reference to arbitration, unless the Court is prima facie satisfied

   that no valid arbitration agreement exists. Section 11(6), on the other hand,

   provides for “Appointment of Arbitrators” when parties fail to mutually agree

   on the name of an arbitrator or appoint an arbitrator in terms of the

   arbitration agreement. Section 45 refers to the “Power of judicial authority to

   refer parties to arbitration” in Part II of the Arbitration Act,1996.

4. Here in this reference, the extent of judicial intervention before the

   commencement of arbitral proceedings is being tested. It raises important

   issues of delays in the enforcement of arbitration agreements, subject to

   payment of stamp duty and whether an arbitration agreement would be non-

   existent, invalid/void, or unenforceable in law, if the underlying instrument is

   not stamped/insufficiently stamped, as per the relevant Stamp Act.

5. The moot question in this reference is whether the statutory bar under Section

   35 titled “Instruments not duly stamped inadmissible in Evidence” of the


                                     Page 3 of 78
Stamp Act,1899 would be attracted when an arbitration agreement is

     produced under Section 11(6) of the Arbitration Act,1996. As a corollary, this

     reference also tests the scope and nature of the Court’s intervention

     specifically at the stage of appointment of arbitrator under Section 11 of the

     Arbitration Act, 1996. The conundrum over the scope of judicial review and

     the   validity/enforceability    of   the   unstamped/insufficiently   stamped

     arbitration agreement contained in an underlying contract is expected to be

     resolved in this reference.

                      B.    Reference to the Constitution Bench

6. A 3-judge bench in M/S N.N. Global Mercantile Private Limited v M/S Indo

     Unique Flame Limited and others3 (for short “NN Global”) by doubting the

     reasoning in Paragraphs 146 and 147 of a coordinate bench of this Court in

     Vidya Drolia and others v Durga Trading Corporation4 (for short “Vidya Drolia”)

     considered it appropriate for the issue to be examined by a Bench of five

     judges. The matter before the Court in Vidya Drolia(supra) was related to

     subject-matter arbitrability but while deciding the question, it cited with

     approval Paragraphs 22 and 29 of the 2-judge Bench judgment in Garware

     Wall Tropes Limited v Coastal Marine Constructions and Engineering

     Limited5(for short “Garware”).

7. Following the decision in SMS Tea Estates (P) Ltd. v. Chandmari Tea Co. (P)

     Ltd.6(for short “SMS Tea”), it was held in Garware(supra) that non-payment of

     stamp duty on the commercial contract would invalidate even the arbitration

     agreement and render it non-existent in law and unenforceable.
 3
   (2021) 4 SCC 379
 4
   (2021) 2 SCC 1
 5
   (2019) 9 SCC 209
 6
   (2011) 14 SCC 66

                                       Page 4 of 78
8. This Court in NN Global(supra) overruled the 2-judge bench decision in SMS

  Tea(supra) which was cited with approval in Garware(supra).


9. NN Global(supra) relied inter alia, on the principle of Kompetenz Kompetenz

  and the doctrine of Separability incorporated under Section 16 of the

  Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 to doubt the correctness of the view

  taken in Vidya Drolia(supra) and Garware(supra). The relevant paragraphs

  which define the scope of this reference are extracted below:

       “34. We doubt the correctness of the view taken in paras 146 and 147
       of the three-Judge Bench in Vidya Drolia [Vidya Drolia v. Durga
       Trading Corpn., (2021) 2 SCC 1 : (2021) 1 SCC (Civ) 549] . We
       consider it appropriate to refer the findings in paras 22 and 29 of
       Garware Wall Ropes Ltd. [Garware Wall Ropes Ltd. v. Coastal Marine
       Constructions & Engg. Ltd., (2019) 9 SCC 209 : (2019) 4 SCC (Civ)
       324] , which has been affirmed in paras 146 and 147 of Vidya Drolia
       [Vidya Drolia v. Durga Trading Corpn., (2021) 2 SCC 1 : (2021) 1 SCC
       (Civ) 549] , to a Constitution Bench of five Judges.

       56. We are of the considered view that the finding in SMS Tea Estates
       [SMS Tea Estates (P) Ltd. v. Chandmari Tea Co. (P) Ltd., (2011) 14
       SCC 66 : (2012) 4 SCC (Civ) 777] and Garware [Garware Wall Ropes
       Ltd. v. Coastal Marine Constructions & Engg. Ltd., (2019) 9 SCC 209 :
       (2019) 4 SCC (Civ) 324] that the non-payment of stamp duty on the
       commercial contract would invalidate even the arbitration agreement,
       and render it non-existent in law, and unenforceable, is not the
       correct position in law.

       57. In view of the finding in paras 146 and 147 of the judgment in
       Vidya Drolia [Vidya Drolia v. Durga Trading Corpn., (2021) 2 SCC 1 :
       (2021) 1 SCC (Civ) 549] by a coordinate Bench, which has affirmed
       the judgment in Garware [Garware Wall Ropes Ltd. v. Coastal Marine
       Constructions & Engg. Ltd., (2019) 9 SCC 209 : (2019) 4 SCC (Civ)
       324] , the aforesaid issue is required to be authoritatively settled by a
       Constitution Bench of this Court.

       58. We consider it appropriate to refer the following issue, to be
       authoritatively settled by a Constitution Bench of five Judges of this
       Court:
            “Whether the statutory bar contained in Section 35 of the
            Stamp Act, 1899 applicable to instruments chargeable to
            stamp duty under Section 3 read with the Schedule to the
            Act, would also render the arbitration agreement contained
            in such an instrument, which is not chargeable to payment
            of stamp duty, as being non-existent, unenforceable, or


                                     Page 5 of 78
                  invalid, pending payment of stamp duty on the substantive
                  contract/instrument?”

10.       Thus, the correctness of the decisions in SMS Tea(supra), Garware(supra),

     Vidya Drolia(supra), as well as other relevant decisions is to be evaluated

     during the course of the reference. It has been brought to the notice of this

     Court that conflicting decisions have created a vexed situation for arbitral

     proceedings and hence, this issue is expected to be settled through this

     reference.

11.       The background facts in NN Global (supra) which gave rise to this

     reference are to be noted at the outset:

                                    C. Facts in N.N. Global7

12.       Indo Unique Flame Ltd. (for short “Indo Unique Flame”) entered into a

     sub-contract Work Order with N.N. Global Mercantile Pvt. Ltd (“NN Global”) on

     28.09.2015 for transportation of coal. In terms of Clause 9 of the Work Order,

     NN Global furnished a Bank Guarantee to Indo Unique. Clause 10 of the Work

     Order provided for an arbitration clause.         Due to certain disputes in the

     principal contract, Indo Unique invoked the Bank Guarantee furnished by NN

     Global. Thereafter, NN Global filed a Civil Suit before the Commercial Court,

     Nagpur. An application under Section 8 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 was also

     filed seeking reference of the disputes to arbitration. The Commercial Court

     on 18.01.2018 rejected the application under Section 8 of the Arbitration Act,

     1996 holding that the Bank Guarantee was an independent contract.

     Thereafter, Indo Unique filed a Writ Petition against the order of the

     Commercial Court. On 30.9.2020, the Bombay High Court allowed the


 7
     (2021) 4 SCC 379

                                        Page 6 of 78
  application under Section 8 of the Arbitration Act,1996. It held that the non-

  stamping of Work Order can be raised at the stage of Section 11 of the

  Arbitration Act,1996 or before the Arbitral Tribunal at the appropriate stage. It

  set aside the order of the Commercial Court on 18.01.2018. An appeal was

  filed in this Court where NN Global contended that since the sub-contract was

  not stamped under the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958, the arbitration

  agreement would be rendered ‘unenforceable’. It is in this context that the

  Court doubted the correctness of previous decisions in Garware (supra) which

  was cited with approval in Vidya Drolia (supra) declaring such arbitration

  agreements to not exist in law and reconsideration of the issue was sought

  from this Constitution Bench.

                   D. Modification of the reference question:

13.    The original reference question in Para 58 of N.N. Global (supra) was set

  out as under:

         “Whether the statutory bar contained in Section 35 of the Stamp
         Act, 1899 applicable to instruments chargeable to stamp duty
         under Section 3 read with Schedule to the Act, would also render
         the arbitration agreement contained in such an instrument,
         which is not chargeable to payment of stamp duty as being non-
         existent, unenforceable in law, or invalid/void, pending payment
         of stamp duty on the substantive contract/instrument?”
                                                   [emphasis supplied]
  Mr. Gourab Banerjee, learned Senior Counsel assisting this Court as Amicus

  Curiae however proposed to reframe the question of reference, as under:

        “Whether the statutory bar contained in Section 35 of the Stamp
        Act, 1899 applicable to instruments chargeable to stamp duty
        under Section 3 read with Schedule to the Act, would also render
        the arbitration agreement contained in such an instrument, which
        is not chargeable to payment of stamp duty as being non-existent,
        unenforceable in law, or invalid/void, pending payment of stamp
        duty on the substantive contract/instrument?”


                                  Page 7 of 78
                                                     [Emphasis in original]
 14.    It is seen that an erroneous observation pertaining to the Maharashtra

   Stamp Act,1958 not subjecting an arbitration agreement to stamp duty was

   made in para 20, 24 and 58 in NN Global(supra). In each of our four opinions,

   Justice KM Joseph, Justice C.T. Ravikumar, Justice Ajay Rastogi (& self), we

   find that this is not the correct position on the applicability of the

   Maharashtra Stamp Act,1958. The Indian Stamp Act,1899 is a fiscal

   enactment that levies a charge on the execution of instruments. Section 2(14)

   of the Stamp Act, 1899 defines “instrument” as “every document by which any

   right or liability is, or purports to be, created, transferred, limited, extended,

   extinguished or recorded”.     Section 3 titled “Instruments chargeable with

   duty” provides inter alia that the instrument must be mentioned in the

   Schedule to the Act. It is essential to note that arbitration agreements are not

   specifically mentioned in Schedule I of the Stamp Act,1899 as “instruments”

   which are required to be stamped. However, under the residuary entry in

   Article 5(c) of Schedule I of the Stamp Act, 1899 titled as “if not otherwise

   provided for”, stamp duty becomes payable. This residuary entry is contained

   in amendments to Schedule I of the Stamp Act, 1899, as well as various State

   Stamp Acts. I would therefore proceed on the basis that an arbitral agreement

   falls within the definition of “instrument” as stipulated under the Stamp

   Act,1899 and would be subject to stamp duty.


                          E. Submissions of the Counsel:


15. We have heard the elaborate submissions from Mr. Gourab Banerjee, Learned

   Senior Counsel assisting this Court as Amicus Curiae; Mr. Gagan Sanghi,



                                    Page 8 of 78
      Learned Counsel for the appellant; Ms. Malavika Trivedi, Learned Senior

      Counsel for the Intervenor in IA 18516 of 2022; Mr. Ramakanth Reddy,

      Learned Senior Counsel for Respondent No. 1 and Mr. Debesh Panda,

      Learned Counsel for the Intervenor in IA 199969 of 2022. They have cited

      various decisions of this Court as well as of Courts in other jurisdictions.

16. The learned Amicus Curiae makes the following specific submissions:


  16.1. The Determination of whether an arbitration agreement is duly stamped

  or not, must be left to the arbitrator. Section 11(6A) of the Arbitration Act, 1996

  circumscribes the scope of the appointing authority. It begins with a non-

  obstante clause and was specifically meant to overrule the 7-judge bench in

  SBP & Co v Patel Engg. Ltd8. (for short “SBP”) and National Insurance Co. Ltd. V

  Boghara Polyfab (P) Ltd9 (for short “Boghara Polyfab”). Moreover, the ambit of

  Section 16 of Arbitration Act, 1996 which deals with the competence of an

  arbitral tribunal to rule on its jurisdiction, is wide enough, according to Mr.

  Gourab Banerjee, to allow the arbitrator to make a determination with respect

  to the stamping of the instrument.


  16.2. The 246th Report of the Law Commission of India10 (for short “246th LCI

  Report) recommended that the scope of authority be limited to “existence” and

  “validity” of the arbitration agreement. The legislature went one step further

  and limited the scope of the appointing authority under Section 11(6A) of the

  Arbitration Act,1996 to confine to the examination of only “existence” and not


  8
     (2005) 8 SCC 618
  9
    (2009) 1 SCC 267
  10
      Law Commission of India, ‘Amendments to the Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996’
  (246th Report, August 2014) Available at
  (https://cdnbbsr.s3waas.gov.in/s3ca0daec69b5adc880fb464895726dbdf/uploads/2022/0
  8/2022081615.pdf) <Last accessed on 19.3.2023>

                                       Page 9 of 78
even “validity” of the arbitration agreement. Such approach is consistent with

the objective of expeditious resolution of arbitration disputes. A Court under

Section 11(6) of Arbitration Act,1996 is in the nature of an appointing authority,

to facilitate and assist arbitration.


16.3 The statutory bar in Section 35 of the Stamp Act, 1899 would be triggered

only when there is a finding that the document is not duly stamped. For the

same, there ought to be an inquiry into stamping. Only on triggering of Section

33(2) of the Stamp Act, 1899 titled “Examination and impounding of

instruments”, Section 35 will follow. The examination under Section 33(2) of the

Stamp Act, 1899 should not be undertaken by a Court under Section 11(6A) of

the Arbitration Act, 1996, but by the appointed arbitrator.


16.4. If the court finds under Section 11 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 that there

is no agreement, then it can take a final view. However, if the Court feels that a

deeper consideration is required then the same can be left to the Arbitral

Tribunal under Section 16 of the Arbitration Act,1996. According to Mr. Gourab

Banerjee, the learned Senior Counsel, this is the appropriate way to harmonise

Section 11(6A) with Section 16 of the Arbitration Act, 1996.


16.5. The absence of stamping or instrument inadequately stamped would at

best be an issue of admissibility but not about jurisdiction. The Stamp

Act,1899 is a fiscal measure enacted to secure revenue for the State for certain

classes of instruments. It is, therefore, not enacted to arm a litigant with a

weapon of technicality to meet the case of the opponent.


16.6. The learned Amicus Curiae points out that a Court exercising power

under Section 11(6A) of the Arbitration Act, 1996 is not a Court as defined in

                                   Page 10 of 78
Section 2(1)(e) of the Arbitration Act, 1996 which has the authority to ‘receive

   evidence’. In some sense, under Section 11(6A), the Court is to only form a

   prime facie opinion.


   16.7. Significantly, the parties are not under an obligation to file an original

   arbitration agreement and only the copy can be annexed which however is not

   an “instrument” as provided in Section 2(14) of the Stamp Act, 1899. The

   reading of Section 33 or 35 of the Stamp Act, 1899 would pointedly suggest that

   these provisions are not concerned with the copy of the instrument. Validity is

   always open to examination at the post-referral stage. [Jupudi Kesava Rao v

   Pulavarthi Venkata Subbarao and others11, Hariom Agrawal v Prakash Chand

   Malviya12]


17. Projecting the contrary view, Mr. Gagan Sanghi, learned Counsel for the

        appellant makes the following submissions:


   17.1. Section 35 of the Indian Stamp Act,1899 bars admission of unduly

   stamped “instrument” in evidence “for any purpose” and also “acting upon it”.

   In Govt. of AP. v P. Laxmi Devi13, it was held that “shall” in Section 33 of Stamp

   Act,1899 is mandatory and unstamped document must be impounded.


   17.2. Even assuming that stamp duty is not payable on an arbitration

   agreement under Stamp Act, 1899, when arbitration agreement is contained as

   a clause in an instrument on which stamp duty is payable, such arbitration

   agreement as an instrument, attracts the bar of Section 35 of the Stamp

   Act,1899.

   11
      (1971)1 SCC 545
   12
      (2007) 8 SCC 514
   13
      (2008) 4 SCC 720

                                     Page 11 of 78
17.3. The learned counsel argues that separation of agreement from the

substantive contract is a legal fiction created by Section 16 of the Arbitration Act,

1996. Section 16 of Arbitration Act,1996 cannot be an exception to Section 35 of

the Indian Stamp Act, 1899.[Bengal Immunity Co vs State of Bihar14, Para 69,70

of Govt. of India v Vedanta15; Amazon V Future Retail16]


17.4. According to Mr. Sanghi, Doctrine of Separability and Kompetenz

Kompetenz has no bearing on the issue of enforceability of an arbitration

agreement when proper stamp duty is not paid on the instrument containing

the arbitration agreement. The learned counsel relied on the decision of UK

Supreme Court in Enka Insaat v OOO Insurance Company17 where it was held

that an “arbitration clause is nonetheless part of bundle of rights and obligations

recorded in the contractual document”.


17.5. The issue of stamping is to be looked into at the very threshold, even if it

is in exercise of Section 11 (6A) of the Arbitration Act, 1996, i.e. at the time, the

consideration with respect to appointment of arbitrator is undertaken.

According to the learned counsel, an instrument would exist in law only when

it is enforceable. Therefore, when the Court under Section 11(6A) of the

Arbitration Act, 1996 is considering the “existence” of the arbitration agreement,

it can examine the issue of non-stamping or of inadequate stamping at that

stage itself.


17.6. Highlighting that three modes are provided in NN Global (supra) i.e.

impounding, payment of stamp duty and then appointment of arbitrator, it is

14
   (1955) 2 SCR 603
15
   (2020)10 SCC 1
16
   (2022) 1 SCC 209
17
  [2020] UKSC 38

                                  Page 12 of 78
   argued that when an arbitrator is appointed in a Section 11 application, the

   Court is certainly “acting upon” the arbitration clause which is contended to be

   barred by the clear wordings of Section 35 of the Stamp Act, 1899.             An

   Agreement, unless “enforceable”, is not in “existence”.


18. The learned Senior Advocate, Ms. Malvika Trivedi, intervening on behalf of the

   Appellant made the following submissions:


   18.1.The Regimes of the Stamp Act, 1899 and Registration Act, 1908 are

   completely different. NN Global (supra) wrongly applied the principles of

   registration of a document to the requirement of stamping a document. While

   the former is a curable defect, the latter determines the very existence and

   completion of a document/instrument. In the absence of registration, an

   instrument still remains in existence but without stamping, the instrument is

   incomplete/inchoate.


   18.2.The Stamp Act, 1899 envisages the payment of stamp duty, failing which

   the instrument according to Ms. Trivedi cannot be acted upon for any purpose.

   There is no ambiguity in the language of the Statute and plain reading should

   be opted.


   18.3. The powers of the Court under different provisions of law, as well as the

   restrictions created in the Stamp Act, 1899 apply to the proceedings conducted

   in accordance with Section 9 of the Arbitration Act,1996. It is, therefore, argued

   that even if the arbitration clause stands severed, the Court will have to reach

   a prima facie conclusion on whether the main agreement is enforceable in law

   before granting interim measures.


                                    Page 13 of 78
19. Learned Counsel for the Respondent No. 1, Mr. Ramakanth Reddy, took us

   through the relevant Lok Sabha debates before the enactment of the Arbitration

   Act,1996 and makes the following submissions:


   19.1 Provisions of Arbitration Act, 1996; Stamp Act, 1899 and Contract Act,

   1872 can be harmonized. Section 17 of Stamp Act, 1899 has to be read with

   Section 31 of Stamp Act, 1899.


   19.2 Plain language of Section 7 of the Arbitration Act,1996 does not require

   that the parties stamp the agreement. The legislative intention would be

   defeated, if the Court insists on non-core technical requirements such as

   stamps, seals and originals.


  20. In his turn, Mr. Debesh Panda, learned Counsel for the Intervenor submits

  the following:


   20.1 Part I of Arbitration Act, 1996 deals with Section 8,9 and 11 whereas

   Section 45 is dealt with in Part II. Section 45 has been recognized as a provision

   falling under Part II which is a “complete code”. [See Chloro Controls v Severn

   Trent Water Purification Inc18] The expression “unless it finds” in Section 45 was

   interpreted per majority in Shin-Etsu Chemical Co. Ltd. v Aksh Optifibre Ltd19

   (for short “Shin-Etsu) as a consideration on a “prima facie basis” only. In 2019,

   Parliament amended Section 45. It substituted the expression “unless it finds.”

   with “unless it prima facie finds”. It thus brings the statute in line with the

   position settled in Shin Etsu (supra). In this background, the Stamp Act, 1899

   merely creates a temporary infliction till the stamp duty is recovered, with or


   18
        (2013) 1 SCC 641
   19
        (2005) 7 SCC 234

                                    Page 14 of 78
   without penalty (as the case may be). The affliction only attaches to the

   instrument and not the transaction.


   20.2 The Arbitration Act, 1966 has always been held to be an exhaustive

   legislation in the nature of a complete Code. [Paragraphs 83-84, 89 in Fuerst

   Day Lawson Ltd. v. Jindal Exports Ltd.20] According to Mr. Panda, the

   impounding of the parent instrument that contains the arbitration agreement

   by a forum that exercises power under the complete Code, either under Section

   8, 9 and 11 within Part I, or under Section 45 within Part-II, is inconsistent

   with the character of Arbitration Act, 1996 which is in the nature of a complete

   code.


21. Looking at the respective projection by the learned Amicus Curiae and other

counsels, the following questions fall for our consideration:


         i)     Whether the non-stamping of the substantive contract/instrument

                would render the arbitration agreement non-existent in law, void and

                unenforceable at the stage of Section 11 of the Arbitration Act, 1996

                for the purpose of referring a matter for arbitration?

         ii)    Whether the examination of stamping and impounding should be

                done at the threshold by the Section 11 judge or should it be left to

                the arbitrator?

                   F. The Statutory framework of the Stamp Act, 1899




   20
        (2011) 8 SCC 333

                                        Page 15 of 78
22. Let us begin by examining the objective behind the enactment of the Stamp

Act, 1899. The 67th Law Commission Report21 suggests that the idea of a fiscal

enactment for the purpose of collecting revenue for the State first originated in

Holland and thereafter, the Bengal Regulation 6 of 1797 was enacted in India.

This was initially limited to Bengal, Bihar, Orissa and Banaras. Subsequently,

various stamp regulations were introduced in Bombay and Madras. The Stamp

duties were primarily intended to compensate for the deficiency in public revenue

due to abolition of tax for the maintenance of police establishments, leviable on

“Indian Merchants and Traders”. However, the Regulation paved way for later

enactments relating to stamp duty. In 1860, the first Act relating to Stamp duties

was enacted in India. This was repealed by the Act of 1862, 1869, 1879 and

subsequently, the Act of 1899 was enacted which is the current legislation.


23. Reflecting on the objective of the Stamp Act, 1899, a 3-judge bench of this

Court in Hindustan Steel Ltd. v. Dilip Construction Co.22 (for short “Hindustan

Steel”) speaking through J.C. Shah J. made the following pertinent observation:

        “7. The Stamp Act is a ﬁscal measure enacted to secure revenue for
        the State on certain classes of instruments: It is not enacted to arm a
        litigant with a weapon of technicality to meet the case of his
        opponent.”
24. Learned Amicus Curiae, Mr. Gourab Banerjee cited the decision of the

Pakistan Supreme Court in Union Insurance Company of Pakistan Ltd. v Hafiz

Muhammad Siddique23 which addressed this issue as early as 1978, following the

ratio in Hindustan Steel (supra). Faced with the question of whether there would

be any valid arbitral proceedings, if the arbitration agreement is unduly stamped

 21
    Law Commission of India, ‘Indian Stamp Act’ (67th Report, February,1997) available at
 https://lawcommissionofindia.nic.in/report_seventh/accessed on 11March 2023
 22
    (1969) 1 SCC 597
 23
    1978 PLD SC 279

                                       Page 16 of 78
and hence, inadmissible in evidence under Section 35 of the Stamp Act,1899; the

Court attributed a purely fiscal purpose to stamping, holding that stamping is

not meant to interfere in commercial life. Discussing the provisions of the Stamp

Act,1899 including Section 61 which empowers appellate Courts to revise

decisions on “sufficiency” of stamps, Dorab Patel J concluded that:

        “the object of the legislature in enacting the Stamp Act was to protect
        public revenue and not to interfere with commercial life by invalidating
        instruments vital to the smooth flow of trade and commerce.”

                                                          [emphasis supplied]

 25. Thus, the object is to see that the revenue for the State is realised to the

 utmost extent24 and not to affect the validity of the document. Its provisions

 must be construed narrowly to that extent. In the same judgment, it was

 elaborated by the Pakistan Supreme Court as under:

        “For example, an instrument would be produced in evidence only
        when there is a dispute about it, therefore, if the intention of the
        Legislature had been to render invalid all instruments not properly
        stamped, it would have made express provision in this respect and it
        would have also provided some machinery for enforcing its mandate
        in those cases in which the parties did not have occasion to produce
        unstamped instruments before the persons specified in the section.”


 26. This Court in RIO Glass Solar SA v. Shriram EPC Limited and Ors.25 while

 holding that foreign awards need not be stamped noted that the Stamp

 Act,1899 reflects the fundamental policy of Indian law. A 2-judge bench

 speaking through Nariman J. noted as under:

        “ 34. ……The fundamental policy of Indian law, as has been held in Renusagar
        Power Co. Ltd. v. General Electric Co., 1994 Supp (1) SCC 644, and followed in
        Associate Builders v. Delhi Development Authority, (2015) 3 SCC 49, makes it
        clear that if a statute like the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973 dealing

 24
    J.M.A. Raju v Krishnamurthy Bhatt, AIR 1976 Guj 72; Chiranji Lal (Dr.) v. Hari Das
 (2005) 10 SCC 746; Jagdish Narain v. Chief Controlling Revenue Authority, AIR 1994 All
 371.
 25
    (2018) 18 SCC 313

                                      Page 17 of 78
         with the economy of the country is concerned, it would certainly come within
         the expression “fundamental policy of Indian law”. The Indian Stamp Act, 1899,
         being a fiscal statute levying stamp duty on instruments, is also an Act which
         deals with the economy of India, and would, on a parity of reasoning, be an Act
         reflecting the fundamental policy of Indian law.”
                                                                      [emphasis supplied]
27. The object of the Stamp Act can be further understood from S.

Krishnamurthy Aiyar’s Commentary26 on the Stamp Act, 1899 where discussing

the judgments in Hindustan Steel(supra) and J.M.A Raju v Krishnamurthy Bhatt

27
     , the object is stated as under:

         “The object of the Stamp Act is a purely fiscal regulation. Its sole
         object is to increase the revenue and all its provisions must be
         construed as having in view the protection of revenue. It is not
         enacted to arm a litigant with a weapon of technicality to meet the
         case of his opponent. The whole object is to see that the revenue of
         the State is realised to the utmost extent”
It is plain that the legislative intent and object behind the Stamp Act,1899, is to

secure revenue for the State and it is an Act reflecting the fundamental policy

of Indian law. Thus, policy considerations and securing revenue must also be

kept in mind while interpreting the provisions of the Stamp Act,1899.

27.1. In the case of Commissioner of IT v. Chandanben Maganlal28, it was

held that any provision relating to a tax statute must be interpreted so that

the meaning of such provision must harmonise with the legislature’s

intention behind the law. Let us now consider Section 35 & 36 of the Stamp

Act, 1899 with which we are directly concerned. They are extracted below:

         “35. Instruments not duly stamped inadmissible in evidence, etc.—
         No instrument chargeable with duty shall be admitted in evidence
         for any purpose by any person having by law or consent of parties
         authority to receive evidence, or shall be acted upon, registered or



26
   S. Krishnamurthy Aiyar, The Indian Stamp Act, An Exhaustive Summary with State
Amendments; 7th Edn, P. 22
27
   AIR 1976 Guj 72
28
   (2000) 245 ITR 182

                                        Page 18 of 78
      authenticated by any such person or by any public officer, unless
      such instrument is duly stamped: Provided that—
            (a) any such instrument [shall], be admitted in evidence on
            payment of the duty with which the same is chargeable, or, in
            the case of an instrument insufficiently stamped, of the
            amount required to make up such duty, together with a
            penalty of five rupees, or, when ten times the amount of the
            proper duty or deficient portion thereof exceeds five rupees, of
            a sum equal to ten times such duty or portion;
            (b) where any person from whom a stamped receipt could have
            been demanded, has given an unstamped receipt and such
            receipt, if stamped, would be admissible in evidence against
            him, then such receipt shall be admitted in evidence against
            him, on payment of a penalty of one rupee by the person
            tendering it;
            (c) where a contract or agreement of any kind is effected by
            correspondence consisting of two or more letters and any one
            of the letters bears the proper stamp, the contract or
            agreement shall be deemed to be duly stamped;
            (d) nothing herein contained shall prevent the admission of
            any instrument in evidence in any proceeding in a Criminal
            Court, other than a proceeding under Chapter XII or Chapter
            XXXVI of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898);
            (e) nothing herein contained shall prevent the admission of any
            instrument in any Court when such instrument has been
            executed by or on behalf of 66 [the 67 [Government]] or
            where it bears the certificate of the Collector as provided by
            section 32 or any other provision of this Act.”
      “36. Admission of instrument where not to be questioned.—Where
      an instrument has been admitted in evidence, such admission shall
      not, except as provided in section 61, be called in question at any
      stage of the same suit or proceeding on the ground that the
      instrument has not duly stamped.”
28. Section 35 proscribes authorities from considering unstamped documents

but the exceptions to the statutory bar under Section 35 as provided in

35(a),(b),(d) and (e) and Section 36, would clearly suggest that non-payment of

stamp duty is a curable defect and the document would not be rendered void at

the first instance, if the requisite Stamp duty is not paid. Thus, there is no

absolute bar. It is also well-settled in law that failure to stamp a document




                                  Page 19 of 78
does not affect the validity of the transaction embodied in the document; it

merely renders a document inadmissible in evidence29.


28.1. K. Krishnamurthy30 in the Commentary on the Indian Stamp Act, 1899

discusses the proviso to Section 35 of Stamp Act, 1899 as under:

      “This proviso enables Courts and Arbitrators to admit in evidence
      documents unstamped or deficiently stamped on payment of the proper
      duty and penalty. An instrument not duly stamped shall be admitted in
      evidence on payment of the duty and penalty. An instrument not duly
      stamped shall be admitted in evidence on payment of the duty with
      which the same is chargeable or in the case of an instrument
      insufficiently stamped, of the amount required to make up such together
      with penalty31. An award which is not engrossed on stamped paper or is
      engrossed on an insufficiently stamped paper may be validated with
      retrospective effect by payment of the duty or deficit duty32. Where an
      award is not stamped, the defect in the award can be cured by
      impounding the document and after the defect is removed it can be brought
      on record and made a rule of the Court. 33”
                                                             [emphasis supplied]
29. Similarly, Section 42(2) of the Stamp Act, 1899 which deals with the

consequence of non-stamping provides as follows:

      “42. Endorsement of instruments in which duty has been paid
      under section 35, 40 or 41.—
      (1) When the duty and penalty (if any) leviable in respect of any
      instrument have been paid under section 35, section 40 or section
      41, the person admitting such instrument in evidence or the
      Collector, as the case may be, shall certify by endorsement thereon
      that the proper duty or, as the case may be, the proper duty and
      penalty (stating the amount of each) have been levied in respect
      thereof, and the name and residence of the person paying them.
      (2) Every instrument so endorsed shall thereupon be admissible in
      evidence, and may be registered and acted upon and authenticated
      as if it had been duly stamped, and shall be delivered on his

29
   Gulzari Lal Malwari v Ram Gopal AIR 1937 Cal 765; Mattegunta Dhanalakshmi v Kantam
Raju Saradamba,AIR 1977 AP 348; See also Puranchandra v Kallipada Roy, AIR 1942 Cal
386;Boottam Pitchiah v Boyapati Koteswara Rao AIR 1964 AP 519
30
   K. Krishnamurthy, The Indian Stamp Act, An Exhaustive Summary with State
Amendments;12th Edition P. 372-373
31
   Omprakash v. Laxminarayan 2014(1) SCC 618
32
  Pattoolal Sharma v Rajadhiraj Umrao Singh AIR 1955 NUC 2621
33
   Wilson & Co. Pvt. Ltd. V K.S. Lokavinayagam AIR 1992 Mad 100

                                    Page 20 of 78
      application in this behalf to the person from whose possession it came
      into the hands of the officer impounding it, or as such person may
      direct:

      Provided that—

      (a) no instrument which has been admitted in evidence upon
      payment of duty and a penalty under section 35, shall be so
      delivered before the expiration of one month from the date of such
      impounding, or if the Collector has certified that its further
      detention is necessary and has not cancelled such certificate;

      (b) nothing in this section shall affect the Code of Civil Procedure,
      1882 (14 of 1882), section 144 clause 3.”
                                                           [emphasis supplied]


30. The phraseology of Sections 36, 35 and 42 of the Stamp Act,1899 was

considered in Hindustan Steel (supra). The factual backdrop therein was that

Hindustan Steel made an application under Section 30 and 33 of the Indian

Arbitration Act,1940 for setting aside the award on the ground that it was

unstamped and as such, void ab initio. This Court, however, held that there is

no bar against an instrument not duly stamped being “acted upon”, after

payment of stamp duty and penalty according to the procedure prescribed in

the Act. It was pertinently observed as follows:

            “6. Relying upon the difference in the phraseology between
            Sections 35 and 36 it was urged that an instrument which is
            not duly stamped may be admitted in evidence on payment of
            duty and penalty, but it cannot be acted upon because
            Section 35 operates as a bar to the admission in evidence of
            the instrument not duly stamped as well as to its being acted
            upon, and the Legislature has by Section 36 in the conditions
            set out therein removed the bar only against admission in
            evidence of the instrument. The argument ignores the true
            import of Section 36.
            -
            By that section an instrument once admitted in evidence shall
            not be called in question at any stage of the same suit or
            proceeding on the ground that it has not been duly stamped.
 Section 36 does not prohibit a challenge against an instrument
            that it shall not be acted upon because it is not duly stamped,
            but on that account there is no bar against an instrument not


                                   Page 21 of 78
                duly stamped being acted upon after payment of the stamp
                duty and penalty according to the procedure prescribed by the
                Act. The doubt, if any, is removed by the terms of Section 42(2)
                which enact, in terms unmistakable, that every instrument
                endorsed by the Collector under Section 42(1) shall be
                admissible in evidence and may be acted upon as if it has
                been duly stamped.”
                                                         (emphasis supplied)

31. The above would indicate that there is no absolute bar against the

instrument being “acted upon” since at a later stage the defect is curable.


31.1. Arguing that the above course is not available, Ms. Malavika Trivedi,

learned Senior Counsel for the intervenor had contended that Section 35

provides for a statutory bar, where the agreement shall not be admitted in

evidence for any purpose nor shall it be acted upon, registered or authenticated

by any such person or by any public officer. It is, therefore, submitted that

when a Court appoints an arbitrator under Section 11 of Arbitration Act,1996, it

is certainly “acting upon” the arbitration clause, which is barred by the clear

language of Section 35 of the Stamp Act,1899. Let us now proceed to test the

above argument.


31.2      In Hameed Joharan v. Abdul Salam34 in the context of an unstamped

decree for partition, 2 judges of this Court had the occasion to interpret Section

35 of the Stamp Act,1899 and the interplay with Article 136 of the Limitation

Act,1963. It was contended in that case that an instrument not duly stamped,

cannot be “acted upon”. The issue therein was whether a decree passed in a

suit for partition can be acted upon/enforced, without engrossing on stamp

paper. It was also argued that the period of limitation begins to run from the




34
     (2001) 7 SCC 573

                                      Page 22 of 78
date when the decree becomes enforceable i.e. when the decree is engrossed on

the stamp paper. In this context, the Court opined that:

         “38. …..Undoubtedly, Section 2(15) includes a decree of partition and
         Section 35 of the Act of 1899 lays down a bar in the matter of
         unstamped or insufficient stamp being admitted in evidence or being
         acted upon — but does that mean that the prescribed period shall remain
         suspended until the stamp paper is furnished and the partition decree is
         drawn thereon and subsequently signed by the Judge? The result would
         however be an utter absurdity. As a matter of fact, if somebody does not
         wish to furnish the stamp paper within the time specified therein and as
         required by the civil court to draw up the partition decree or if someone
         does not at all furnish the stamp paper, does that mean and imply, no
         period of limitation can be said to be attracted for execution or a
         limitless period of limitation is available. The intent of the legislature in
         engrafting the Limitation Act shall have to be given its proper weightage.
         Absurdity cannot be the outcome of interpretation by a court order and
         wherever there is even a possibility of such absurdity, it would be a
         plain exercise of judicial power to repel the same rather than
         encouraging it. The whole purport of the Indian Stamp Act is to make
         available certain dues and to collect revenue but it does not mean and
         imply overriding the effect over another statute operating in a completely
         different sphere.”
                                                                 [Emphasis supplied]

 31.3. Thus, it was held that the Stamp Act,1899 cannot override the effect of

 another statute such as the Limitation Act,1963 operating in a completely

 different sphere. Further, the expression “executability” and “enforceability”

 was distinguished to mean that “enforceability” cannot be a subject matter of

 Section 35 of Stamp Act,1899. It was conclusively held that enforceability

 cannot be suspended until furnishing of stamp paper. At most, a document

 can be rendered non-executable.

 31.4. Thereafter, a 3-judge bench of this Court in Chiranji Lal (Dr.) v. Hari

 Das35 after discussing the above judgment in Hameed Joharan(supra) on the

 question of period of limitation beginning to run from the date of the decree

 being engrossed on the stamp paper, pertinently held as under:


35
     2005) 10 SCC 746

                                       Page 23 of 78
       “23. Such an interpretation is not permissible having regard to the object and
       scheme of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899. The Stamp Act is a fiscal measure
       enacted with an object to secure revenue for the State on certain classes of
       instruments. It is not enacted to arm a litigant with a weapon of technicality
       to meet the case of his opponent. The stringent provisions of the Act are
       conceived in the interest of the Revenue. Once that object is secured
       according to law, the party staking his claim on the instrument will not be
       defeated on the ground of initial defect in the instrument (Hindustan Steel
       Ltd. v. Dilip Construction Co. [(1969) 1 SCC 597]).”
                                                                   [emphasis supplied]


31.5. It was specifically held that “the starting of period of limitation for

execution of a partition decree cannot be made contingent upon the

engrossment of the decree on the stamp paper.”


31.6. Thus, unstamped/insufficiently stamped document does not affect the

enforceability of a document nor does it render a document invalid36. A plain

reading of the provisions would also make it clear that a document can be

“acted upon” at a later stage. It is therefore a curable defect.


32.The learned Counsel for the Appellant, Mr. Gagan Sanghi argued that

Section 35 and 33 are mandatory provisions as it uses the word “shall” and an

unstamped document must be impounded at the threshold. In Principles of

Statutory Interpretation by Justice G.P. Singh37 on the use of the word “shall”

and presumption of the word being imperative, it is stated:

          “ ….this prima facie inference about the provision being imperative
          may be rebutted by other considerations flowing from such
          construction. There are numerous cases where the word “shall” has
          therefore been construed as merely directory. The word ‘shall’,
          observes HIDAYATULLAH, J. “is ordinarily mandatory but sometimes
          not so interpreted if the context or the intention otherwise demands

36
   Gulzari Lal Malwari v Ram Gopal AIR 1937 Cal 765; Mattegunta Dhanalakshmi v Kantam
Raju Saradamba,AIR 1977 AP 348; See also Puranchandra v Kallipada Roy, AIR 1942 Cal
386;Boottam Pitchiah v Boyapati Koteswara Rao AIR 1964 AP 519
37
   Justice G.P. Singh: Principles of Statutory Interpretation,(LexisNexis,2016) at P. 450-451;
Burjore and Bhawani Prasad v Bhagana ILR 10 Cal 557; Sainik Motors v State of Rajasthan
1962 (1) SCR 517 ; State of UP v Babu Ram AIR 1961 SC 751

                                       Page 24 of 78
               and points out SUBBARAO J. “when a statute uses the word ‘shall’,
               prima facie it is mandatory, but the court may ascertain the real
               intention of the legislature by carefully attending to the whole scope of
               the statute.”
                                                               [emphasis supplied]
32.1. P.B. Maxwell in the Commentary on Interpretation of Statutes38 notes that

an Act is to be regarded in its entirety and discusses the following three ways of

interpretation:

     “Passing from the external aspects of the Statute to its contents, it is an elementary
     rule that construction is to be made of all parts together, and not of one part only
     by itself”
        i)         Individual words are not considered in isolation, but may be have their
                   meaning determined by other words in the Section in which they occur.
        ii)        The meaning of a section may be controlled by other individual sections
                   in the same Act.
        iii)       Lastly, the meaning of a section may be determined, not so much by
                   reference to other individual provisions of the Statute, as by the scheme of
                   the Act regarded in general”
                                                                    [emphasis supplied]


32.2. Justice G.P. Singh in Interpretation of Statutes further notes39:

        “ The principle that the statute must be read as a whole is equally applicable to
        different parts of the same section. The section must be construed as a whole
        whether or not one of the parts is a saving clause or a proviso. Subbarao J calls
        it "an elementary rule that construction of a section is to be made of all the
        parts together”                                              [emphasis supplied]

32.3. Thus, on a consolidated reading of Section 35,36 and the proviso to

Section 35 and 42 ; the use of the word “acted upon” in all these sections or

even in the same section, read with the objective and legislative intent of the

Stamp Act 1899, it is clear that the bar under Section 35 is not intended to be

absolute; non-payment of stamp duty is a curable defect as the objective is to

protect revenue. Moreover, none of the provisions of the Stamp Act,1899 have

the effect of rendering a document invalid or void ab initio.

38
   P St J Langan, Maxwell on The Interpretation of Statutes (N M Tripathi Private Ltd, 1976);
P. 58-64
39
   Justice G.P. Singh: Principles of Statutory Interpretation,(LexisNexis,2016) at P. 46;

                                          Page 25 of 78
            G. The Statutory Scheme of the Arbitration Act,1996

33. It is apposite to refer to the parliamentary intent behind the enactment of

the Arbitration Act, 1996 which replaced the Arbitration Act,1940. The first law

on the subject was the Arbitration Act, 1899 with limited application in the

Presidency towns of Calcutta, Bombay and Madras. Thereafter, the second

schedule of the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code, 1908 dealt with

arbitration. The major consolidated legislation was the Arbitration Act,1940

which was based on the (English) Arbitration Act,1940. The Law Commission in

its 246th LCI Report(supra) notes that this arbitral regime was based on the

mistrust of the arbitral process and “The 1996 Act is based on the UNCITRAL

Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration, 1985 and the UNCITRAL

Conciliation Rules, 1980.” The relevant part of the Statement of Object and

Reasons is extracted below:

         (i) to comprehensively cover international commercial arbitration
         and conciliation as also domestic arbitration and conciliation;

         (ii) to make provision for an arbitral procedure which is fair,
         efficient and capable of meeting the needs of the specific
         arbitration;

         (iii) to provide that the arbitral tribunal gives reasons for its
         arbitral award;

         (iv) to ensure that the arbitral tribunal remains within the limits
         of its jurisdiction;

         (v) to minimise the supervisory role of courts in the arbitral process;

         (vi) to permit an arbitral tribunal to use mediation, conciliation
         or other procedures during the arbitral proceedings to encourage
         settlement of disputes;

         (vii) to provide that every final arbitral award is enforced in the
         same manner as if it were a decree of the court;

                                    Page 26 of 78
          (viii) to provide that a settlement agreement reached by the
          parties as a result of conciliation proceedings will have the same
          status and effect as an arbitral award on agreed terms on the
          substance of the dispute rendered by an arbitral tribunal; and

          (ix) to provide that, for purposes of enforcement of foreign awards,
          every arbitral award made in a country to which one of the two
          International Conventions relating to foreign arbitral awards to
          which India is a party applies, will be treated as a foreign award.”

                                                  [emphasis supplied]

34. Further, on reading Article 5 of the Model Law and Section 5 of the

Arbitration Act,1996, which cover the provisions for judicial intervention in

arbitral proceedings, it is clear that the Parliament went beyond Article 5 of

the UNCITRAL Model law and added a non-obstante clause. To substantiate

this point, it is pertinent to quote the provisions in full.

Article 5 of the UNCITRAL Model Law,1985 reads as under:

       “ Article 5. Extent of Court intervention- In matters governed by this
       Law, no court shall intervene except where so provided in this Law.”

Section 5 of the Arbitration Act,1996 reads as under:
       “5. Extent of judicial intervention.—Notwithstanding anything
       contained in any other law for the time being in force, in matters
       governed by this Part, no judicial authority shall intervene except
       where so provided in this Part.”
                                                         [emphasis supplied]


35. Additionally, reflecting on the purpose of Article 5, Dr. Peter Binder in

UNCITRAL Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration, 198540 notes:

       “1-107 : According to the Commission Report, the purpose of Article
       5 was “to achieve a certainty as to the maximum extent of judicial
       intervention, including assistance, in international commercial
       arbitration, by compelling the drafters to list in the (model) law on
       international commercial arbitration all instances of court
       intervention. The Analytical Commentary describes the effect of
       Article 5 as being “to exclude any general or residual powers given to


40
  P. Binder, International Commercial Arbitration And Conciliation In UNCITRAL Model Law
Jurisdictions 274 (2nd ed., Sweet & Maxwell London 2005) P. 50-51

                                      Page 27 of 78
      the courts in a domestic system which are not listed in the model
      law”
      In addition to the great advantage of providing clarity of law, which is
      particularly important for foreign parties(protecting them from
      unwanted legal surprises, Article 5 also functions to accelerate the
      arbitral process in allowing less of a chance of delay caused by
      intentional and dilatory court proceedings.”
                                                      [emphasis supplied]
36. A collective reading of the Statement of Object and Reasons of the

Arbitration Act,1996 r/w Section 5 of the Act, and Article 5 of the Model Law,

would make it abundantly clear that the legislative intent behind the

enactment was to inter alia, minimise the intervention of the Courts and

provide for timely resolution of disputes. By adding a non-obstante clause, the

Parliament through Section 5 made a significant departure from Article 5 and

gave an overriding effect over the provisions of any other law for the time being

in force. It circumscribed the role of the judicial authority, especially in context

of the Courts exercising any residual power that may accrue to them through

any provision in any law.


37. Let us now refer to the unamended Section 11(6) of the Arbitration Act,1996

which is based on the Article 11 of the UNCITRAL Model law:

      “11 Appointment of arbitrators. —
      (6) Where, under an appointment procedure agreed upon by the
      parties,—
      (a) a party fails to act as required under that procedure; or
      (b) the parties, or the two appointed arbitrators, fail to reach an
      agreement expected of them under that procedure; or
      (c) a person, including an institution, fails to perform any function
      entrusted to him or it under that procedure, a party may request the
      Chief Justice or any person or institution designated by him to take the
      necessary measure, unless the agreement on the appointment
      procedure provides other means for securing the appointment.”




                                   Page 28 of 78
38. Even though the key provisions in the Arbitration Act,1996 are primarily

based on the UNCITRAL Model Law, the legislature has also made significant

departures, while amending Section 11 and Section 8 of the Arbitration Act,1996.


39. Next, it would be appropriate to briefly trace the jurisprudential history of

Section 11(6) of the Arbitration Act,1996 for the purpose of this reference.


      i) Evolution of law under Section 11(6) of Arbitration Act, 1996

40. A 2-judge Bench of this Court in ICICI Ltd. v. East Coast Boat Builders &

Engineers Ltd41 taking into consideration delays in appointment of arbitrators

under Section 11(6), referred the question of jurisdiction of a Section 11 judge

to consider arbitrability of a dispute to a three-judge bench. It was noted that

in KR Raveendranathan v. State of Kerala42, another two Judge Bench of this

Court had already referred to a larger Bench, a similar question.

41. Thereafter, in Sundaram Finance Ltd. v. NEPC India Ltd43, a 2-judge bench

opined that:

      "12. …under the 1996 Act, appointment of arbitrator(s) is made as
      per the provisions of section 11, which does not require the Court to
      pass a judicial order appointing [the] arbitrator(s)."

42. The above obiter was affirmed by a 2-judge Bench in Ador Samia Pvt Ltd. v.

Peekay Holdings Ltd44 (for short “Ador Samia”). Dealing with the question of

appeal under Article 136 of the Constitution of India, from an order made by

the Chief Justice of a High Court appointing an arbitrator, this Court held that

an order under Section 11 of the Arbitration Act,1996 was an administrative

order. This was affirmed by a three- Judge Bench in Konkan Railways Corpn v.
41
   (1998)9 SCC 728
42
   (1996)10 SCC 35
43
   (1999)2 SCC 479
44
   (1999)8 SCC 572

                                  Page 29 of 78
Mehul Construction Co45 (for short “Konkan Railways(I)”) where the matter came

up for reconsideration of the ratio in Ador Samia(supra). It was observed as

under:

           " 4. …When the matter is placed before the Chief Justice or his
           nominee under Section 11 of the Act it is imperative for the said Chief
           Justice or his nominee to bear in mind the legislative intent that the
           arbitral process should be set in motion without any delay whatsoever
           and all contentious issues are left to be raised before the Arbitral
           Tribunal itself. At that stage it would not be appropriate for the Chief
           Justice or his nominee to entertain any contentious issue between the
           parties and decide the same. A bare reading of Sections 13 and 16 of
           the Act makes it crystal clear that questions with regard to the
           qualifications, independence and impartiality of the arbitrator, and in
           respect of the jurisdiction of the arbitrator could be raised before the
           arbitrator who would decide the same.”

43. The three-judge bench decision was subsequently affirmed by five judges in

Konkan Railways Corpn v. Mehul Construction Co46(for short “Konkan Railways

(II)”). This Court held therein that the power exercised by the Chief Justice or

'any person or institution' designated by him under section 11 is not

adjudicatory. Following a detailed review of the precedents, it was held that the

function of the Chief Justice or his designate under Section 11 is to only "fill

the gap left" and appoint an arbitrator for expeditious constitution and

commencement of arbitration proceedings.


44. The seven judges of this Court in SBP (supra) overturned the decision in

Konkan Railways (II) (supra). It was held therein that deciding an application

for appointment is an exercise of ‘judicial’ power, as opposed to an

‘administrative’ power and that the Court is also authorized to record evidence:

          “39. ….[f]or the purpose of taking a decision on these aspects, the
          Chief Justice can either proceed on the basis of affidavits and the
45
      (2000)7 SCC 201
46
     (2002) 2 SCC 388

                                      Page 30 of 78
      documents produced or take such evidence or get such evidence
      recorded”

45. However, Justice C.K. Thakker dissented from the majority opinion and

came to the conclusion that it was an administrative power in the following

passage:

      “85. …There is […] no doubt in my mind that at that stage, the
      satisfaction required is merely of prima facie nature and the Chief
      Justice does not decide lis nor contentious issues between the
      parties. Section 11 neither contemplates detailed inquiry, nor trial
      nor findings on controversial or contested matters.”

46. The four main reasons behind the dissent can be summarised as
under:
      “111. ….Firstly, the function of the Court is to interpret the
      provision as it is and not to amend, alter or substitute by
      interpretative process. Secondly, it is for the legislature to make a
      law applicable to certain situations contemplated by it and the
      judiciary has no power in entering into ‘legislative wisdom’. Thirdly,
      as held by me, the ‘decision’ of the Chief Justice is merely prima
      facie decision and sub-section (1) of Section 16 confers express
      power on the arbitral tribunal to rule on its own jurisdiction.
      Fourthly, it provides that remedy to deal with situations created by
      the order passed by the arbitral tribunal. The sheet anchor of his
      dissent is that in the guise of interpreting a statute, judicial
      legislation is not permissible.”

47.   In the dissenting opinion in Paragraph 95 & 96, Justice Thakkar further

held as under:

      “95. Now, let us consider Section 16 of the Act. This section is new
      and did not find place in the old Act of 1940. Sub-section (1) of that
      section enables the Arbitral Tribunal to rule on its own jurisdiction. It
      further provides that the jurisdiction of the Tribunal includes ruling
      on any objections with respect to existence or validity of the
      arbitration agreement. Sub-sections (2), (3) and (4) lay down procedure
      of raising plea as to the jurisdiction of the Arbitral Tribunal and
      entertaining such plea. Sub-section (5) mandates that the Arbitral
      Tribunal “shall decide” such plea and, “where the Arbitral Tribunal
      takes a decision rejecting the plea, continue with the arbitral
      proceedings and make an arbitral award”. Sub-section (6) is equally
      important and expressly enacts that a party aggrieved by an arbitral
      award may invoke Section 34 of the Act for setting aside such award.

                                   Page 31 of 78
        The provision appears to have been made to prevent dilatory tactics
        and abuse of immediate right to approach the court. If an aggrieved
        party has right to move the court, it would not have been possible to
        preclude the court from granting stay or interim relief which would
        bring the arbitration proceedings to a grinding halt. The provisions of
        Section 16(6) read with Section 5 now make the legal position clear,
        unambiguous and free from doubt.

        96.        Section 16(1) incorporates the well-known doctrine
        of Kompetenz-Kompetenz or competence de la competence. It
        recognises and enshrines an important principle that initially and
        primarily, it is for the Arbitral Tribunal itself to determine whether it
        has jurisdiction in the matter, subject of course, to ultimate court-
        control. It is thus a rule of chronological priority. Kompetenz-
        Kompetenz is a widely accepted feature of modern international
        arbitration, and allows the Arbitral Tribunal to decide its own
        jurisdiction including ruling on any objections with respect to the
        existence or validity of the arbitration agreement, subject to final
        review by a competent court of law i.e. subject to Section 34 of the
        Act.”


48. The above line of reasoning in Justice Thakkar’s dissent resonates with the

internationally recognized principle of Kompetenz Komptenz and the doctrine of

separability. The majority opinion in SBP (supra) suggests that a Section 11

Court could conduct a mini-trial at the pre-referral stage. The jurisprudential

correctness of SBP(supra) has been doubted and was considered as excessive

judicial intervention by the 246th LCI Report(supra). It has been legislatively

overruled by subsequent amendments in the Arbitration Act,1996 which will be

discussed later in this judgment.


49. Thereafter, a two-judge bench in Boghara Polyfab (supra) which followed

SBP(supra), allowed the court to examine, inter alia, the following issues:

        “22.2. (a) Whether the claim is a dead (long barred) claim or a live claim.
              (b) Whether the parties have concluded the contract/
              transaction by recording satisfaction of their mutual rights and
              obligation or by receiving the final payment without objection.”




                                     Page 32 of 78
50. The 246th LCI report(supra), discussing both SBP(supra) and Boghara(supra)

significantly noted that the real issue is the “scope” and “nature” of judicial

intervention:

      “29. The Supreme Court has had occasion to deliberate upon the
      scope and nature of permissible pre-arbitral judicial intervention,
      especially in the context of section 11 of the Act. Unfortunately,
      however, the question before the Supreme Court was framed in terms
      of whether such a power is a “judicial” or an “administrative” power –
      which      obfuscates   the     real     issue    underlying     such
      nomenclature/description as to:
            -the scope of such powers – i.e. the scope of arguments which a
            Court (Chief Justice) will consider while deciding whether to
            appoint an arbitrator or not – i.e. whether the arbitration
            agreement exists, whether it is null and void, whether it is
            voidable etc; and which of these it should leave for decision of
            the arbitral tribunal.
            -the nature of such intervention – i.e. would the Court (Chief
            Justice) consider the issues upon a detailed trial and whether
            the same would be decided finally or be left for determination of
            the arbitral tribunal”
                                                      [emphasis supplied]
51. As regards nature, the 246th LCI Report(supra) noted that the exposition of

law on the point is to be found in Shin Etsu (supra) where this Court while

interpreting Section 45 of the Arbitration Act,1996 held that the issue should be

looked at on a “prima facie” basis only. On scope, it was recommended that the

Court should restrict to the examination of whether the agreement is “null and

void” and if the Court finds that the agreement does not exist, that decision

would be final. It made the following recommendation as regards Section 8 and

11 of the Arbitration Act,1996:

      “33. …The scope of the judicial intervention is only restricted to
      situations where the Court/Judicial Authority finds that the
      arbitration agreement does not exist or is null and void. In so far as the
      nature of intervention is concerned, it is recommended that in the
      event the Court/Judicial Authority is prima facie satisfied against the
      argument challenging the arbitration agreement, it shall appoint the
      arbitrator and/or refer the parties to arbitration, as the case may be.”


                                   Page 33 of 78
52. The 2015-Amendment significantly restricted the scope of intervention even

further as we will notice below.

                  ii) Post-2015 Regime: Insertion of Section 11(6A)
53. There has been a major shift post-2015 amendment with the insertion of

Section 11(6A) in the Arbitration Act,1996. The legislative intent is clear from

the plain reading of Section 11(6A) as extracted below:

           "The Supreme Court or, as the case may be, the High Court,
          while considering any application under sub-section(4) or sub-
          section(5) or sub-section(6), shall, notwithstanding any
          judgment, decree or order of any Court, confine to the
          examination of the existence of an arbitration agreement.”
                                                    [emphasis supplied]
54. The basis for this amendment, as explained in 246th LCI Report(supra), was

to undo the effect of SBP(supra) and Boghara(supra) which widened the scope

of inquiry and intervention by a Court under Section 11(6) of the Arbitration

Act,1996.    Section 11(6A) uses the phrase “notwithstanding any judgment,

decree or order of any Court” and effectively overrules judgments which

widened the scope of inquiry. Section 11(6A) does not use the word “null and

void” as recommended by the Law Commission. Thus, the legislature went one

step further and confined the examination to the “existence” of the arbitration

agreement.


55. Now let us notice the language used in Sections 8,11 and 45 of the

Arbitration Act,1996, all of which deal with the power of Courts at the pre-

arbitral stage.


55.1. Section 8 of the Arbitration Act,1996 titled “Power to refer parties to

arbitration where there is an arbitration agreement” has been amended in 2015


                                   Page 34 of 78
with the following language: “unless it finds that prima facie no valid arbitration

agreement exists” .


55.2. Section 45 in Part II titled “Power of judicial authority to refer parties to

arbitration” has also been amended and notified in 2019. The amendment in

Section 45 was made after the judgment of three judges in Shin Etsu(supra)

where in a case of international arbitration, the question before this Court was

when an application under Section 45 is moved, is the Court required to pass a

prima facie finding or a final-finding based on the merits of the case, which

would result in a full-fledged trial? In the majority opinion, it was held as

under:

      “105. …the object of the Act would be defeated if proceedings remain
      pending in the court even after commencing of the arbitration. It is
      precisely for this reason that I am inclined to the view that at the pre-
      reference stage contemplated by Section 45, the court is required to
      take only a prima facie view for making the reference, leaving the
      parties to a full trial either before the Arbitral Tribunal or before the
      court at the post-award stage”
55.3. Pursuant to Shin Etsu(Supra), the 2019 Amendment to Section 45 states:

“…unless it prima facie finds that the said agreement is null and void,

inoperative or incapable of being performed”. Thus, from the above discussion it

is clear that Section 8 uses the word “validity” and Section 45 uses the phrase

“null and void, inoperative or incapable of being performed”. In that sense,

Section 11(6A) is a unique provision which is confined to the “existence” of the

arbitration agreement and not its “validity”. The amended provision also does

not find place in the UNCITRAL Model Law. Learned Amicus Curiae pointed to




                                   Page 35 of 78
the definition of confine in P. Ramanatha Aiyar’s Advanced Law Lexicons47

which states: “imprison; hold in custody. To keep within circumscribing limits”.


56. On reading the language in Section 11(6A) with Section 5 of the Arbitration

Act1996, and an interpretation based on legislative intent, it is apparent that

the scope under Section 11(6A) is very narrow.


          iii)Post- 2019 Amendment and the Report of the High-
            Level Committee to Review the Institutionalisation of
                         Arbitration Mechanism in India.

57. The Committee led by Justice Srikrishna48 had recommended further

changes to the Arbitration Act, 1996. It had recommended for the deletion of

Section 11(6A) with the power of appointment of arbitrators being left entirely to

the arbitral institutions. Drawing inspiration from Singapore, Hong Kong,

United Kingdom etc., the Committee recommended that this would prevent

further delays and set the momentum for institutional arbitration in India.

Under the amended Section 11(6), the appointment of arbitrators is to be done

by the arbitral institution:

           “…the appointment shall be made, on an application of the party, by
           the arbitral institution designated by the Supreme Court, in case of
           international commercial arbitration, or by the High Court, in case
           of arbitrations other than international commercial arbitration, as
           the case may be.”

 58. Insertion of Section 6(B) by Act 3 of 2016 which is yet to notified reads as

 under:


47
   P. Ramanatha Aiyar, The Encyclopaedic Law Dictionary with Words and Phrases, Legal
Maxims and Latin terms(5th Edition); P. 1037
48
   Government of India, ‘Report of the High Level Committee to Review the Institutionalisation
of Arbitration Mechanism in India (HLC Report, July 2017) Available at
https://legalaffairs.gov.in/sites/default/files/Report-HLC.pdf <Last accessed on
19.3.2023>

                                        Page 36 of 78
     “(6B) The designation of any person or institution by the Supreme
     Court or, as the case may be, the High Court, for the purposes of this
     section shall not be regarded as a delegation of judicial power by the
     Supreme Court or the High Court.]”

     [emphasis supplied]

Even though the amendments are not notified yet and there is limited clarity

on the process, we may take a cue about the intention of the legislature which

seems to be to ensure minimal judicial intervention at the pre-referral stage of

appointment of arbitrator.


59. It would be apposite to refer now to the prevalent position amongst the

most-preferred   arbitral    institutions    i.e.   the   International   Chamber   of

Commerce Court (ICC Court), the London Court of International Arbitration

(LCIA), the Hong Kong International Arbitration Centre (HKIAC), the Singapore

International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) and the Arbitration Institute of the

Stockholm Chambers of Commerce (SCC) which were mentioned in the report

of the High-level Committee and those can be broadly noted as under:-

     1.ICC Arbitration Rules, 2021:

           “Article 6. Effect of the Arbitration Agreement.—
           (4) In all cases referred to the Court under Article 6(3)…The
           arbitration shall proceed if and to the extent that the Court
           is prima facie satisfied that an arbitration agreement under the
           Rules may exist.
           (5) In all matters decided by the Court under Article 6(4), any
           decision as to the jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunal, except as
           to parties or claims with respect to which the Court decides that
           the arbitration cannot proceed, shall then be taken by the
           arbitral tribunal itself.”

     2. HKIAC Arbitration Rules:

           “Article 11 – HKIAC’s Prima Facie Power to Proceed
           11.1 The arbitration shall proceed if and to the extent that
           HKIAC is satisfied, prima facie, that an arbitration agreement
           under these Procedures may exist. Any question as to the
           jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunal shall be decided by the arbitral
           tribunal once constituted.

                                   Page 37 of 78
            11.2 HKIAC’s decision pursuant to Article 11.1 is without
            prejudice to the admissibility or merits of any party’s pleas.”

      3. LCIA Arbitration Rules:

            “Article 23. Jurisdiction and Authority
            23.1 The Arbitral Tribunal shall have the power to rule upon its
            own jurisdiction and authority, including any objection to the
            initial or continuing existence, validity, effectiveness or scope of
            the Arbitration Agreement.”

      4. SIAC International Arbitration Centre Rules, 2016:

            “Article 28. Jurisdiction of the Tribunal
            28.1 If any party objects to the existence or validity of the
            arbitration agreement or to the competence of SIAC to
            administer an arbitration, before the Tribunal constituted,the
            Registrar shall determine if such objection shall be referred to
            the Court. If the Registrar so determines, the Court shall decide
            if it is prima facie satisfied that the arbitration shall proceed.
            The arbitration shall be terminated if the Court is not so
            satisfied. Any decision by the Registrar or the Court that the
            arbitration shall proceed is without prejudice to the power of the
            Tribunal to rule on its own jurisdiction.
            28.2 The Tribunal shall have the power to rule on its own
            jurisdiction, including any objections with respect to the
            existence, validity or scope of the arbitration agreement. An
            arbitration agreement which forms part of a contract shall be
            treated as an agreement independent of the other terms of the
            contract.”

      5. Arbitration Institute of SCC Rules:

            “Article 11. Decisions by the Board
            The Board takes decisions as provided under these Rules,
            including deciding:
            (i) whether the SCC manifestly lacks jurisdiction over the
            dispute pursuant to Article 12 (i);
 Article 12(i). Dismissal
            The Board shall dismiss a case, in whole or in part, if:
            (i)    the SCC manifestly lacks jurisdiction over the dispute;…”

60. Thus, the approach of the reputed arbitral institutions worldwide would

show that there is express recognition of the principle of Kompetenz-

Kompetenz and role of Courts is limited to preliminary prima facie examination.

A reading of the above rules would also show that arbitral institutions have

recognized the prima- facie test to determine the existence of the arbitration

agreement. Discussing the rules of the major international arbitral institutions,

                                   Page 38 of 78
William Park in an article titled “Challenging Arbitral Jurisdiction: The Role of

Institutional Rules”49 writes:


       “ On occasion, however, arbitrations have been filed without even
       minimal indicia of consent to the arbitral process. No document seems
       to exist saying the respondent actually agreed to arbitrate with the
       claimant. In such instances, efficiency will be served by early
       consideration of a respondent’s argument that the case should not
       proceed. To this end, the ICC Rules permit the ICC Court to consider
       obvious jurisdictional defects, with arbitration going forward only to the
       extent the ICC Court is prima facie satisfied that an arbitration
       agreement may exist.”

61. Thus, the objective behind the prima-facie test while referring a party to

arbitration, is to also ensure that a non-consenting party is not bound to the

process of arbitration and the doctrine of party autonomy is upheld with

minimal intervention of Courts.


62. Chandrachud J.(as he then was) in the concurring opinion in A.

Ayyasamy vs A. Paramasivam & Ors50 (for short “Ayyasamy”) noted, inter

alia, that jurisprudence in India must strengthen institutional efficacy of

arbitration with minimal intervention of Courts:

       “53. The Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996, should in my view
       be interpreted so as to bring in line the principles underlying its
       interpretation in a manner that is consistent with prevailing
       approaches in the common law world. Jurisprudence in India must
       evolve towards strengthening the institutional efficacy of arbitration.
       Deference to a forum chosen by parties as a complete remedy for
       resolving all their claims is but part of that evolution. Minimising the
       intervention of courts is again a recognition of the same principle.”
                                                       [emphasis supplied]




49
    Park, William. "Challenging Arbitral Jurisdiction: The Role of Institutional Rules", Boston
University School of Law, Public Law Research Paper (2015).
50
   (2016) 10 SCC 386

                                         Page 39 of 78
63. It upheld the one-stop arbitration principle propounded by the House of

Lords in Fiona Trust and Holding Corporation v. Privalov51 .

      “46. In Fiona Trust and Holding Corpn. v. Privalov [Fiona Trust and
      Holding Corpn. v. Privalov, (2007) 1 All ER (Comm) 891 : 2007 Bus LR
      686 (CA)] , the Court of Appeal emphasised the need to make a fresh
      start in imparting business efficacy to arbitral agreements. The Court of
      Appeal held that : (Bus LR pp. 695 H-696 B & F, paras 17 & 19)
             “17. … For our part we consider that the time has now come for a line of
         some sort to be drawn and a fresh start made at any rate for cases arising
         in an international commercial context. Ordinary businessmen would be
         surprised at the nice distinctions drawn in the cases and the time taken up
         by argument in debating whether a particular case falls within one set of
         words or another very similar set of words. If businessmen go to the trouble
         of agreeing that their disputes be heard in the courts of a particular country
         or by a tribunal of their choice they do not expect (at any rate when they are
         making the contract in the first place) that time and expense will be taken in
         lengthy argument about the nature of particular causes of action and
         whether any particular cause of action comes within the meaning of the
         particular phrase they have chosen in their arbitration clause. If any
         businessman did want to exclude disputes about the validity of a contract,
         it would be comparatively simple to say so.
                                                  ***
             19. One of the reasons given in the cases for a liberal construction of an
         arbitration clause is the presumption in favour of one-stop arbitration. It is
         not to be expected that any commercial man would knowingly create a
         system which required that the court should first decide whether the
         contract should be rectified or avoided or rescinded (as the case might be)
         and then, if the contract is held to be valid, required the arbitrator to resolve
         the issues that have arisen. This is indeed a powerful reason for a liberal
         construction.”
      Arbitration must provide a one-stop forum for resolution of disputes.
      The Court of Appeal held that if arbitrators can decide whether a contract
      is void for initial illegality, there is no reason why they should not decide
      whether a contract is procured by bribery, just as much as they can
      decide whether a contract has been vitiated by misrepresentation or non-
      disclosure.

                                                               [Emphasis supplied]



64. Thus, the one-stop arbitration approach would ensure that all issues on

initial illegality or whether a contract is void can be decided by the arbitral

institutions subject, of course, to the ultimate supervisory jurisdiction of the

Courts. An arbitral award can be set aside by Courts as per the legislative



51
     (2007) 1 All ER(Comm) 891 (Paras 17-18)

                                          Page 40 of 78
mandate in Section 34 of the Arbitration Act,1996. This would prevent

multiplicity of proceedings in Courts and tribunals and ensure minimal

judicial intervention.


                          H. Discussion on SMS Tea:

65. Having broadly discussed the legislative scheme of the Stamp Act,1899 and

the Arbitration Act,1996, let us now examine the correctness of the decisions

referred to in NN Global(supra).


66. The judicial position on the enforceability of an arbitration agreement

contained in an unstamped or insufficiently stamped agreement can be traced

from this Court’s 2011 decision in SMS Tea (supra). The facts of the case were

that the appellant was granted lease of two tea estates for a term of 30 years.

The leases deed contained an arbitration clause. On abrupt eviction by the

respondent from the tea estates, the appellant filed an application under

Section 11 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 for the appointment of arbitrator. The

learned Chief Justice of Guwahati High Court dismissed the Section 11

application and held that the lease deed was compulsorily registrable under

Section 17 of the Registration Act,1908 and Section 106 of the Transfer of

Property Act,1882 ; and as the lease deed was not registered, even the

arbitration clause would be rendered invalid. The matter reached this Court

where one of the questions was whether an arbitration agreement in an

unregistered instrument which is not duly stamped, is valid and enforceable. It

was observed that the arbitration agreement in an unstamped or insufficiently

stamped instrument is invalid, given that Section 35 of the Stamp Act, 1899

expressly bars the authority before which such unstamped or insufficiently

                                   Page 41 of 78
stamped instrument is presented to act on such an instrument. At this stage, it

is important to keep in mind that decision in SMS (supra)came at a time when

SBP (supra) and Boghara Polyfab (supra) continued to hold the field i.e. prior to

the insertion of Section 11(6A) to the Act. Thus, even at the Section 11 stage,

under the law which existed before the 2015 Amendment, the Court had wide

powers and could also conduct detailed adjudication. Even though this Court

in SMS Tea(supra) succinctly recognized the doctrine of separability in the

context of Registration Act, 1908, it held that strict and mandatory provisions

of the Stamp Act,1899 on non-payment of Stamp duty could not be read

harmoniously with the relevant provisions of the Arbitration Act, 1996. It was

held as under:


         “22.1. The court should, before admitting any document into evidence or
         acting upon such document, examine whether the instrument/document
         is duly stamped and whether it is an instrument which is compulsorily
         registerable.

         22.2. If the document is found to be not duly stamped, Section 35 of the
         Stamp Act bars the said document being acted upon. Consequently, even
         the arbitration clause therein cannot be acted upon. The court should
         then proceed to impound the document under Section 33 of the Stamp
         Act and follow the procedure under Sections 35 and 38 of the Stamp
         Act.”

67. The judgment in SMS Tea(supra) has been upheld in Naina Thakkar(supra)

and Black Pearl Hotels v Planet M. Retail Ltd.52 (for short “Black Pearl Hotels”).

It has also been cited with approval in a recent judgement by 3 judges of this

Court in Dharmaratnakara (supra). As noted earlier, the Court in Garware

(supra) also followed SMS Tea (supra) which has been cited with approval in

Vidya Drolia (supra). This legal proposition is doubted by this Court in NN

Global (supra) and referred to us.

52
     (2017) 4 SCC 498

                                     Page 42 of 78
68. Section 11(6A) as we have noted above begins with a non-obstante clause

viz. “notwithstanding any judgment, decree or order of any Court” and

effectively overrules all judgments which widened the ambit of examination.


69. The first submission before us by Mr. Gagan Sanghi, learned Counsel for

the Appellant on this aspect was that the observations of two different three-

Judge   Bench     decisions   in   Dharmaratnakara   (supra)   and   Black   Pearl

Hotels(supra) have not been considered in NN Global (supra) which is another

three-judge bench and that this seriously calls into question the finding of NN

Global (supra).


70. It is significant to note here that the above two judgments did not consider

the recent 11(6A) Amendment. Black Pearl Hotels (supra) was delivered pre-

11(6A) and hence stands legislatively overruled. In Dharmaratnakara (supra), it

appears that the amendment to Section 11(6A) was not brought to the notice of

the Court and the earlier judgment in Garware (supra) was not considered.

This could also be because the Court considered the order which was passed

prior to introduction of Section 11(6A). In Dharmaratnakara (supra), the issue

before the Court was whether a document executed between parties was a

lease deed or an “agreement to lease”, and whether arbitration could be

invoked under the said document. Even after determination by the Registrar

(Judicial) of the Karnataka High Court that the concerned document was a

lease deed, the deficit stamp duty was not paid. The Court relied on SMS

Tea(supra), to hold that the arbitration agreement could not be acted upon,

unless stamp duty is paid.


                                   Page 43 of 78
71. From the discussion above, it is clear that Dharmaratnakara (supra) does

not lay down the correct position in light of the post-2015 amendment regime.

Through the Amending Act, SMS Tea (supra) stands legislatively overruled.


72. The correct exposition of law after the insertion of Section 11(6A) is to be

found in Duro Felguera, S.A. v. Gangavaram Port Ltd53 (for short “Duro

Felguera”) where it was held that, "(a)fter the (2015) amendment, all that the

courts need to see is whether an arbitration agreement exists--nothing more,

nothing less. The legislative policy and purpose is essentially to minimise the

Court's intervention at the stage of appointing the arbitrator and this intention as

incorporated in Section 11(6-A) ought to be respected." This has been re-affirmed

by a 3-judge bench in Mayavati Trading Private Limited v. Pradyuat Deb

Burman54 where it was held as under:

         “10. This being the position, it is clear that the law prior to the 2015
         Amendment that has been laid down by this Court, which would have included
         going into whether accord and satisfaction has taken place, has now been
         legislatively overruled. This being the position, it is difficult to agree with the
         reasoning contained in the aforesaid judgment as Section 11(6A) is confined to
         the 15 examination of the existence of an arbitration agreement and is to be
         understood in the narrow sense as has been laid down in the judgment Duro
         Felguera, S.A. (supra) – see paras 48 & 59.”
73.The following extract from Pravin Electricals (P) Ltd. v. Galaxy Infra & Engg.

(P) Ltd.55 is equally pertinent where the Court interpreted Section 11 (6A) to

conclusively hold that a Section 11 judge cannot conduct a mini-trial at that

stage:

         “29. The facts of this case remind one of Alice in Wonderland. In
         Chapter II of Lewis Caroll’s classic, after little Alice had gone down
         the Rabbit hole, she exclaims “Curiouser and curiouser!” and
         Lewis Caroll states “(she was so much surprised, that for the

53
   (2017) 9 SCC 729
54
   (2019) 8 SCC 714
55
   (2021) 5 SCC 671

                                      Page 44 of 78
      moment she quite forgot how to speak good English)”. This is a
      case which eminently cries for the truth to come out between the
      parties through documentary evidence and cross-examination.
      Large pieces of the jigsaw puzzle that forms the documentary
      evidence between the parties in this case remained unfilled. The
      emails dated 22nd July, 2014 and 25th July, 2014 produced here
      for the first time as well as certain correspondence between
      SBPDCL and the Respondent do show that there is some dealing
      between the Appellant and the Respondent qua a tender floated by
      SBPDCL, but that is not sufficient to conclude that there is a
      concluded contract between the parties, which contains an
      arbitration clause. Given the inconclusive nature of the finding by
      CFSL together with the signing of the agreement in Haryana by
      parties whose registered offices are at Bombay and Bihar qua
      works to be executed in Bihar; given the fact that the Notary who
      signed the agreement was not authorised to do so and various
      other conundrums that arise on the facts of this case, it is unsafe
      to conclude, one way or the other, that an arbitration agreement
      exists between the parties. The prima facie review spoken of in
      Vidya Drolia (supra) can lead to only one conclusion on the facts of
      this case - that a deeper consideration of whether an arbitration
      agreement exists between the parties must be left to an Arbitrator
      who is to examine the documentary evidence produced before him
      in detail after witnesses are cross-examined on the same. For all
      these reasons, we set aside the impugned judgment of the Delhi
      High Court in so far as it conclusively finds that there is an
      Arbitration Agreement between the parties.”

                                                     [emphasis supplied]


74. At this point, it would suffice to note that the Court in SMS Tea(supra) held

that an arbitral agreement would be rendered inadmissible in evidence if the

underlying contract is not stamped. It did not, however, state that an

unstamped arbitration agreement would be rendered void as held in

Garware(supra) in the later decision. While SMS Tea(supra) extended the

separability presumption in the context of the Registration Act, 1908 we will

notice below that this presumption can also be extended in the context of

Stamp Act,1899 through harmonious construction.


                                  I.     Discussion on Garware

                                   Page 45 of 78
75. The facts in Garware(supra) were that a sub-contract, for the installation of

geo-textile tubes embankment with toe mound at village Pentha in Odisha, was

provided by the employer for prevention from coastal erosion. Owing to

disputes between parties, the sub-contract was terminated. The Respondent

filed a petition under Section 11 which was allowed by the Bombay High Court

and sole arbitrator was appointed. On appeal, this Court primarily relied on

SMS Tea(supra) to hold that the arbitration agreement in an unstamped

document cannot be acted upon and hence, an arbitrator could not be

appointed until the unstamped agreement in question was impounded. Despite

considering the amended Section 11(6A) and the 246th LCI Report(supra) to note

that SBP(supra) and Boghara(supra) have been overruled, the Court held that

"SMS Tea Estates ha(d), in no manner, been touched by the amendment of

Section 11(6-A)" since it was not excluded by either the 246th LCI Report(supra)

or the Statement of Object and Reasons of the 2015 Amendment. It was further

held that as per Section 2(h) of the Indian Contract Act1872, an agreement

becomes a contract only if it is enforceable by law and hence, an unstamped

document would be unenforceable due to the bar under Section 35 of the

Stamp   Act,1899.    The   following   paragraph    has    been   doubted       by   NN

Global(supra):

      “22. When an arbitration clause is contained “in a contract”, it is
      significant that the agreement only becomes a contract if it is
      enforceable by law. We have seen how, under the Stamp Act, an
      agreement does not become a contract, namely, that it is not
      enforceable in law, unless it is duly stamped. Therefore, even a plain
      reading of Section 11(6-A), when read with Section 7(2) of the 1996 Act
      and Section 2(h) of the Contract Act, would make it clear that an
      arbitration clause in an agreement would not exist when it is not
      enforceable by law. This is also an indicator that SMS Tea Estates has,
      in no manner, been touched by the amendment of Section 11(6-A).”



                                  Page 46 of 78
76. The above proposition of law in Garware(supra) appears to be incorrect. As

noted earlier, the judgment in SMS Tea(supra) stands legislatively overruled as

it was delivered in the pre-2015 amendment regime. Even though there is no

express mention in the 246th LCI Report(supra), the non-obstante clause

effectively overrules it.


77. Now let us consider Section 2(g) and 2(h) of the Indian Contract Act,1872

which read as under:

       “(g) An agreement not enforceable by law is said to be void;
       (h) An agreement enforceable by law is a contract;”
 Incorporating the principle in Garware(supra) would mean that as per Section

 2(g) and (h) of the Contract Act, 1872, an agreement would be rendered void-

 ab-initio, if it is not stamped.          This would however be contrary to the

 legislative   scheme       of   the     Stamp     Act,1899     as    per   which        non-

 stamping/insufficient stamping is a curable defect as discussed earlier.

 Moreover, stamp duty is levied on the instrument and not the transaction.56

 77.1. In Gulzari Lal Malwari v Ram Gopal57 Lord Williams J while discussing

 Section 35 of the Stamp Act, 1899 noted that there is no provision in the

 Stamp Act,1899 which renders a document invalid:

       “There is a clear distinction to be drawn between invalidity and
       inadmissibility of documents. Certain statutes and sections render
       documents invalid if they are not stamped. No section of the Indian
       Stamp Act has this effect but an instance of a document being
       rendered invalid by the omission of stamps is contained in the English
       Stamp Act, s. 93, which provides:—
              A contract for sea insurance (other than such insurance as is
          referred to, in the fifty-fifth section of the Merchant Shipping Act,
          Amendment Act, 1862) shall not be valid unless the same is expressed
          in a policy of sea insurance”


56
   Board of Revenue v N. Narasimhan AIR 1961 Mad 504; A. Bapiraju v District Registrar
AIR 1968 AP 142
57
   AIR 1937 Cal 765

                                       Page 47 of 78
                                                      [emphasis supplied]


77.2. Moreover, the language of Section 11(6A) confines the scope of enquiry to

only “existence.” and not even whether a contract is null and void, as

recommended by the 246th LCI Report(supra). The question on validity and

existence can be gone into by the arbitrator under Section 16 of the Arbitration

Act,1996 and not by the Court under Section 11 of the Arbitration Act, 1996.

J. Interplay between the Stamp Act 1899, Contract Act 1872 and the Arbitration

                                      Act,1996


i) Arbitration Act,1996 is a special legislation


78. In order to understand the interplay between the three Acts, reference to

the relevant provisions is necessary.


   i)     Stamp Act,1899:

The residuary entry in Article 5(c) of Schedule I of the Indian Stamp Act,1899

with the title “Agreements” as noted earlier, states “if not otherwise provided

for” which, as held by us, brings under its ambit even an Arbitration

Agreement.

Now, Instrument is defined under Section 2(14) as under:

                    “(14) “Instrument” includes every document by which
                    any right or liability is, or purports to be, created,
                    transferred, limited, extended, extinguished or record.”

Section 17 provides for the timing of stamping:

                    “ Instruments executed in India.—All instrument
                    chargeable with duty and executed by any person
                    in [India] shall be stamped before or at the time of
                    execution.”


                                   Page 48 of 78
“Execution” is defined in Section 2(12):
                    “Executed” or “Execution” used with reference to
                    instruments, mean “signed” and “signature”

   ii)    Indian Contract Act,1872:

An agreement under the Indian Contract Act,1872 is defined in Section 2(e) as
under:
            “Every promise and every set of promises,             forming   the
             consideration for each other, is an agreement”.
Sections 2(g), 2(h) and 2(j) and Section 10 of the Indian Contract Act,1872 state:
             “(g) An agreement not enforceable by law is said to be void;
              (h) An agreement enforceable by law is a contract;”
              (j) A contract which ceases to be enforceable by law becomes
             void when it ceases to be enforceable
             (10) All agreements are contracts if they are made by the free
             consent of parties competent to contract, for a lawful
             consideration and with a lawful object, and are not hereby
             expressly declared to be void.
iii) Arbitration Act,1996:
Section 2(b) provides as under:
             “(b) arbitration agreement” means an agreement referred to in
          section 7”
Let us now consider Section 7 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 which specifically

defines Arbitration agreement:

             “7 Arbitration agreement. —
             (1) In this Part, “arbitration agreement” means an agreement by
             the parties to submit to arbitration all or certain disputes which
             have arisen or which may arise between them in respect of a
             defined legal relationship, whether contractual or not.
             (2) An arbitration agreement may be in the form of an arbitration
             clause in a contract or in the form of a separate agreement.
             (3) An arbitration agreement shall be in writing.
             (4) An arbitration agreement is in writing if it is contained in—
                    (a) a document signed by the parties;
                    (b) an exchange of letters, telex, telegrams or [any other
                    electronic means] other means of telecommunication
                    which provide a record of the agreement; or




                                   Page 49 of 78
                     (c) an exchange of statements of claim and defence in
                     which the existence of the agreement is alleged by one
                     party and not denied by the other.
                     (5) The reference in a contract to a document containing
                     an arbitration clause constitutes an arbitration agreement
                     if the contract is in writing and the reference is such as to
                     make that arbitration clause part of the contract.”
                                                         [emphasis supplied]



78.1. The following conclusions can be drawn from a consolidated reading of

the above provisions in the three enactments:


     i)     There are no specific requirements in Section 7 of the Arbitration

            Act,1996 or any other provision in the Arbitration Act,1996 as a whole,

            which provide for necessary stamping for validity of an arbitration

            agreement or elaborate generally on the same.

     ii)    Even though Section 10 of the Indian Contract Act,1872 recognises

            oral agreements, a written agreement is sine-qua-non for a valid

            arbitration agreement.

     iii)   “Signing” is just an example of one of the conditions that may satisfy

            the   form   of   an   arbitration    agreement.     Thus,    the    mandatory

            requirement of a signature is ruled out for an arbitration agreement in

            Section 7 of the Arbitration Act,1996. Since Section 7(2)(c) of the

            Arbitration Act, 1996 recognises even exchange of claim and defence

            as written arbitration agreements, there is no signing requirement.
            Even if a written arbitration agreement is not signed, the parties can

            still be bound to an arbitration agreement58. However, Section 17 of



58
Chennai Container Terminal Pvt Ltd v. Union of India, 2007 3 Arb LR 218 (Mad), Fisser v.
International Bank, 282 F.2d 231, 233 (2d Cir 1960), Travancore Devaswom Board v.

                                      Page 50 of 78
          the Stamp Act, 1899 provides for the timing of stamping i.e. before or

          at the time of execution and the term “execution” is defined in the

          Stamp Act,1899 to mean “signature”

   iv)    Even though arbitral “awards” are liable to stamp duty under Item 12

          of the Stamp Act, 1899 and are specifically mentioned in Schedule I ;

          the arbitration agreement for the purpose of stamp duty, gets covered

          only under the residuary entry viz “if not otherwise provided for” in

          Article 5(c). The Stamp Act,1899 does not specifically refer to an

          arbitration agreement.

   v)     As per Section 7 of the Arbitration Act, 1996, Arbitration Agreement

          can even be non-contractual.

   vi)    Section 7(4)(c) of Arbitration Act,1996 envisages that the scope of

          arbitration is not limited to the dispute initially referred to arbitration,

          but also encompasses any disputes that are included in the pleadings

          of the parties i.e. statement of claim and defence.


78.2 The Appointment Of Arbitrators By The Chief Justice Of India Scheme, 1996

provides inter alia for the original or certified copy of the “arbitration agreement”

for a Section 11(6) application. I completely agree with the opinion of my

Learned Brother, Justice K.M. Joseph that an arbitration agreement has to

comply with the indispensable requirements under the Contract Act,1872 such

as competency to contract and presence of sound mind. However, when it

comes to “formal” validity which could include requirements of signature,

stamps, seals; I’m unable to concur that the evidentiary bar under Section 35

Panchamy Pack, 2004 13 SCC 510; Also see, David St. John Sutton, Judith Gill and
Matthew Gearing, Russell on Arbitration(24th Edition); P. 49


                                    Page 51 of 78
of the Stamp Act,1899 should be juxtaposed with Section 2(g) and (2h) of the

Contract Act,1872 to make the agreement “void”. For example, as per Section 10

of the Contract Act,1872, even oral agreements are valid but as per the “form”

of arbitration agreement provided in Section 7 of Arbitration Act,1996 , it has to

necessarily be in writing. Another point worth noting is that if an arbitration

agreement can be for example, even non-contractual and does not necessarily

require signature, how far the general provisions of Stamp Act,1899 and the

Contract Act,1872 can apply to prove “formal” validity of an arbitration

agreement produced under Section 11(6) of the Arbitration Act, 1996? Section

2(h) of the Contract Act,1872 states that an agreement enforceable by law is a

contract but a plain reading of Section 7 of the Arbitration Act,1996 may also

prove that an “arbitration agreement” can be non-contractual. This is not to

say that the provisions of the Contract Act,1872 or Stamp Act,1899 would not

apply. As rightly held in Vidya Drolia(supra) and noted by my Learned Brother

Justice K.M. Joseph, pre-conditions to formation of contract under the

Contract Act,1872 must be met which includes free consent of the parties,

absence of fraud and misrepresentation etc. However, in my view, in this

reference, we are concerned with a formal requirement. The point being that

when a special law provides for the specific requirements for the “formal”

validity of an arbitration agreement, it cannot be rendered void by a general law.

An Arbitration agreement has special attributes59 and is not a conventional

agreement in that sense. Moreover, none of the provisions of the Stamp

Act,1899 would lead us to the conclusion that an arbitration agreement would



59
  O.P. Malhotra and Indu Malhotra, The Law and Practice of Arbitration and Conciliation,
Lexis Nexis,2nd Edition; P. 270

                                      Page 52 of 78
be invalid/void-ab-initio when it is not stamped. Thus, the conclusion in

Garware(supra) that an unstamped agreement would be rendered void is not

only inconsistent with Section 7 of the Arbitration Act,1996 but also the Stamp

Act,1899 as per which a document can at most, be rendered inadmissible in

evidence.


78.3 In the context of Arbitration Act,1996 being a Special law, CR

Datta’s     treatise   titled   Law   Relating   to   Commercial     &    Domestic

Arbitration60 notes:


               “The Act of 1996 is a special Act and a Central Act which
               provides that this Act will prevail over any other law so far as
               the matters governed by this Act are concerned. The
               Authority of the Law Courts has been curtailed. The Courts
               cannot intervene in any manner dealt with by Part I of this
               Act unless specifically empowered to do so. A judicial
               authority may intervene or exercise its powers to the extent
               specified                      in                      Sections
               8,9,11,13,14,16,1727,34,36,37,42,43,45,50,54,58,59,70,74,
               77,81 and 82 of the Act. See Union of India v Popular
               Construction Co. 2001 8 SCC 470, United India Insurance
               Companty v Kumar Texturisers AIR 1999 Bom 118) Section 5
               restrains the Courts from interfering with the process of
               arbitration except in the manner provided in the 1996. CDC
               Financial Services (Mauritius) Ltd v BPI Communications Ltd.
               2005 (Supp.) Arb LR 558(SC)”
                                                         [Emphasis supplied]



78.4 At the cost of repetition, let us now refer to Section 5 of the Arbitration Act,

1996 to understand the special nature of the Act. As noted above, Arbitration

Act,1996 is a special legislation and Section 5 begins with a non-obstante

clause which overrides powers of judicial authorities acting under any other


60
  CR Datta, Law Relating to Commercial and Domestic Arbitration(Along with ADR) P. 98;
Union of India v Popular Construction Co 2001 (8) SCC 470; United India Insurance Co. Ltd.
V Kumar Texturisers AIR 1999 Bom 118

                                      Page 53 of 78
law other than the Arbitration Act,1996. As argued by the learned Counsel for

the Intervenor, Debesh Panda, the special nature of the Act is also established

from the non-obstante clause in Section 5 of the Arbitration Act,1996. On the

Arbitration Act being a self-contained code, Justice Indu Malhotra61, comments

as under:

         “The Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 is a self-contained code
         governing the law relating to Arbitration, including Section 5 which
         gives it an overriding effect over statutes. Once it is held that the
         1996 Act is a self-contained code and is exhaustive, it carries with it
         the negative import that only such acts which are permissible in the
         statute may be done, and none others.”

78.5 The use of the expression “so provided” in Section 5, disregards all forms

of intervention except that, which is specified in Part I. Such intention is

apparent from the language of the non-obstante clause. As noted earlier, this

provision is yet another instance where Parliament went a step beyond the

language employed in the UNCITRAL Model Law of 1985.

78.6 The doctrine of generalia specialibus non derogant i.e. general law will

yield to the special law is well-established in Indian jurisprudence. In the

concurring opinion of Chandrachud DY J. (as he then was) in Ayyasamy(supra)

on Section 8 of the Arbitration Act,1996, it was noted:


                “44. ….Once an application in due compliance of Section 8 of the
                Arbitration Act is filed, the approach of the civil court should be
                not to see whether the court has jurisdiction. It should be to see
                whether its jurisdiction has been ousted. There is a lot of
                difference between the two approaches. Once it is brought to the
                notice of the court that its jurisdiction has been taken away in
                terms of the procedure prescribed under a special statute, the
                civil court should first see whether there is ouster of jurisdiction
                in terms or compliance of the procedure under the special
                statute. The general law should yield to the special law - generalia

61
     Justice Indu Malhotra, Commentary on the Law of Arbitration, Vol. I, 4th Ed., P. 248

                                        Page 54 of 78
                specialibus non derogant. In such a situation, the approach shall
                not be to see whether there is still jurisdiction in the civil court
                under the general law. Such approaches would only delay the
                resolution of disputes and complicate the redressal of grievances
                and of course unnecessarily increase the pendency in the court.”

78.7 Having noted that the Arbitration Act,1996 is a special legislation,

and that general law should yield to special law, let us now examine the

principle of harmonious construction for the purpose of this reference.

             ii)Harmonious Construction


79.It would be apposite to refer to the application of principle of harmonious

construction as explained by Kasliwal, J. while expressing his partial dissent

in St. Stephen's College v. University of Delhi62 :

             “140. … The golden rule of interpretation is that words should be
             read in the ordinary, natural and grammatical meaning and the
             principle of harmonious construction merely applies the rule that
             where there is a general provision of law dealing with a subject,
             and a special provision dealing with the same subject, the special
             prevails over the general. If it is not constructed in that way the
             result would be that the special provision would be wholly
             defeated.       The       House         of      Lords      observed
             in Warburton v. Loveland [(1831) 2 Dow & Cl 480 : 6 ER 806 :
             (1824-34) All ER Rep 589 (HL)] as under: (ER p. 814)
             ‘No rule of construction can require that, when the words of one
             part of a statute convey a clear meaning … it shall be necessary to
             introduce another part of the statute which speaks with less
             perspicuity, and of which the words may be capable of such
             construction, as by possibility to diminish the efficacy of the [first
             part]63.’
                                                           [emphasis supplied]




62
     (1992) 1 SCC 558
63
  Anandji Haridas and Co. (P) Ltd. v. S.P. Kasture [AIR 1968 SC 565 : (1968) 1 SCR
661] , Patna Improvement Trust v. Lakshmi Devi [AIR 1963 SC 1077 : 1963 Supp (2) SCR
812] , Ethiopian Airlines v. Ganesh Narain Saboo [(2011) 8 SCC 539 : (2011) 4 SCC (Civ)
217] , Usmanbhai Dawoodbhai Memon v. State of Gujarat [(1988) 2 SCC 271 : 1988 SCC
(Cri) 318] , South India Corpn. (P) Ltd. v. Board of Revenue [AIR 1964 SC 207 : (1964) 4 SCR
280] , Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education v. Paritosh
Bhupeshkumar Sheth [(1984) 4 SCC 27]

                                       Page 55 of 78
79.1. On a harmonious reading of the inconsistencies in the provisions of

the three different Acts quoted earlier, we find that the general law must

yield to the special law in the sense, that an arbitration agreement cannot

be rendered void on insufficient stamping by a general law, especially when

none of the provisions of the Arbitration Act,1996 which is a special Act

provide for stamping. The requirement for the “formal” validity of an

arbitration agreement under Section 7 of the Arbitration Act,1996 would take

precedence, considering the special nature of the Act and the principle of

minimal judicial intervention. Applying the rule of construction that in cases

of conflict between a specific law and a general law, the specific law prevails

and the general law like the Contract Act,1872 applies only to such cases

which are not covered by the special law; I therefore, hold that Section 2(e),

2(g) , 2(h) of the Contract Act,1872 cannot override Section 7 contained in

the special law i.e. the Arbitration Act,1996 when it comes to formal validity.

79.2. Moreover, when the words of the statute in Section 11 of the

Arbitration Act ,1996 do not mention “validity” or even “inoperable and

incapable of being performed” as mentioned in Section 45 of the Arbitration

Act,1996 or “prima facie no valid arbitration agreement” in Section 8 of the

Arbitration Act, 1996, it must be understood that the general words in a

different statute such as the Contract Act, 1872 cannot override the specific

words used in the special law. That is to say, that an arbitration agreement

cannot be rendered “void” on insufficient stamping by a Section 11 judge

when the scope of examination is only limited to the “existence” of the

arbitration agreement and not “validity”.



                                 Page 56 of 78
79.3. Coming back to the evidentiary bar under Section 35 of the Stamp

Act,1899 it is important to understand that since the scope of a Section 11

judge is limited, the court cannot receive evidence in such cases. Before the

2015 Amendment to the Arbitration Act,1996, as per the position laid down

in SBP(supra), the Chief Justice had wide powers to receive evidence,

including affidavits, and get evidence recorded at the stage of appointment

of arbitrator. Under the amended Section 11, as noted before, the scope is

“confined” to the examination of the “existence” of the arbitration agreement.

Thus, post-amendment, it can most certainly not admit evidence. A Section

11 Court is “not an authority to receive evidence” as provided in Section 35

of the Stamp Act,1899. Moreover, it is an undisputed position that Section

35 of the Arbitration Act,1996 does not preclude an arbitrator to impound or

admit evidence. It states “any person having by law or consent of parties,

authority to receive evidence.” Thus, the statutory bar under Section 35 of

the Stamp Act,1899 would not apply when a document is produced at the

stage of a Section 11 proceeding of the Arbitration Act,1996.

79.4. It is essential to interpret the special law in a way that gives effect to

its specific provisions, while also ensuring that it is consistent with the

general law to the extent possible. Impounding at the stage of Section 11

would stall arbitral proceedings right at the outset because of the statutory

bar under Section 35 of the Stamp Act, 1899. One way to harmonise Section

35 of Stamp Act,1899 and Section 11 of the Arbitration Act,1996 is for the

Section 11 judge to defer necessary stamping and impounding to the

arbitrator/collector, as applicable. A plain reading of Section 35 of the Stamp



                                 Page 57 of 78
Act,1899 makes it clear that it does not preclude an Arbitrator or Collector

to impound the unstamped/insufficiently stamped document.



79.5. In this context, even if we are to assume that the Stamp Act,1899 is a

substantive law, the view taken by us is not intended to undermine the

Stamp Act,1899 in any substantial way. This is because the primary

objective being revenue generation, could still be achieved even if the

collection of stamp duty is deferred to the arbitrator and not at the stage of a

judge referring the matter for arbitration. Additionally, if such a contention

is raised before the referring judge, she/he can also caution the arbitrator

on the aspect of no/deficient stamp duty on the concerned instrument.

Such a course will also protect the interest of the revenue and the

substantive law.

     K. Implication of changing nature of transaction and the advent of the
                                  technology
 80. As we are proceeding on the basis that an arbitration agreement is liable

 to stamp duty, this Court cannot also be oblivious of the technological

 advancements as commercial transactions are going beyond pen and paper

 agreements. The 2015 amendment to Section 7 of the Arbitration Act,1996

 which defines arbitration agreement recognizes electronic communication,

 bringing the process in conformity with Article 7 of the UNCITRAL Model law

 which was amended in 2006. It modernized and broadened the form of

 arbitration agreement to conform with international contract practices. The

 exchange of letters, telex, telegrams or other means of telecommunication

 including communication through electronic means which provide a record of

 the agreement are now recognized as valid arbitration agreement.

                                 Page 58 of 78
80.1.Dr. Peter Binder in International Commercial Arbitration and Mediation in

UNCITRAL Model Law Jurisdictions64 notes:

                 “The wording in “exchange of letters,telex, telegrams or other
                 means of telecommunication” indicates Model law’s flexibility
                 towards future means of communication by being geared solely at
                 the “record of the agreement” rather than the strict direct signature
                 of the agreement. Incidentally, Article 5(Section III) of the
                 Montreal Protocol No. 4 to the Warsaw Convention which
                 concerns the formal requirements of an air waybill, provided the
                 impetus for the wording “Any other means which would preserve
                 a record of the carriage to be performed may, with the consent of
                 the consigner, be substituted for the delivery of an air waybill.”
                 The Protocol specifically had electronic means of communication
                 in mind, as the aviation industry was among the first to use this
                 technology in business.”
                                                           [emphasis supplied]
80.2.What logically follows from the above is that the traditional laws must not

render these new forms of agreements unenforceable on insufficient stamping.

Recently, the Stockholding Corporation of India Ltd. has been authorised to

provide e-stamp services, which allows for the payment of stamp duties for

some Indian States. The Indian Stamp Act(Collection of Stamp-Duty Through

Stock Exchanges, Clearing Corporations and Depositories) Rules 2019 as

amended through the               Finance Act,2021 has been brought about to build a

pan-India securities market and to enhance revenue. It amended the definition

of “execution” to include signature even in electronic form.


80.3. However, the definition of “duly stamped” in Section 2(11) of the Stamp

Act,1899 remains unchanged:

                 “'Duly Stamped' as applied to an instrument means that the
                 instrument bears an adhesive or impressed stamp of not less
                 than the proper amount and that such stamp has been affixed or
                 used in accordance with the law for time being in force.”
                                                           [emphasis supplied]


64
     Supra at note 40; P. 67-68

                                         Page 59 of 78
80.4. The penalty for an instrument which is not “duly stamped” is provided in

Section 62 of the Stamp Act,1899. In this discussion, we must be conscious

that the Stamp Act,1899 was enacted nearly 125 years ago and the lawmakers

could not have contemplated the march of law and the myriad issues which

would crop up through the advent of technology and also the new enactments

such as the Arbitration Act,1996. The legal framework pertaining to e-contracts

is still at a nascent stage in India.

80.5. Richard Susskind in his book65, "The End of Lawyers? Rethinking the

Nature of Legal Services," suggests that new technologies and processes, such

as artificial intelligence and blockchain, may be able to simplify and streamline

the arbitration process in the future. We now have the phenomenon of smart

contracts and metaverse in the sphere of commercial transactions where

technology and artificial intelligence are integrated. The developments in the

legal framework must attune to such developing trends in technology and be

conscious of their implications today and for the future.


80.6 Noticing the emerging trends, the Chief Justice of India in a recent

conference     observed66      that   legal    professionals     across     the   globe     are

recommending smart contract arbitration. Describing smart contracts and how

arbitration can be used to resolve disputes, Chief Justice DY Chandrachud

commented:

          “Technology and artificial intelligence are integrated into commercial
          transactions. One such example of integration of technology and
          contracts is a smart contract, where the terms and conditions of the

65
   Richard Susskind, The End of Lawyers? Rethinking the Nature of Legal Services, Oxford
University Press, 2010
66
   Dr D.Y. Chandrachud, International Conference: Arbitration in the Era of Globalization
(4th Edn., Dubai, 19-3-2022).

                                      Page 60 of 78
             contract are encoded. A breach in the terms of the contract would
             automatically enforce the contract.


80.7. Modern arbitration law focuses on substance over form67. Learned

Counsel, Mr. Ramakanth Reddy appearing for Respondent No. 1, referred to a

judgment delivered in 2008 in Great Offshore Ltd. v. Iranian Offshore

Engineering and Construction Company68 where the Court speaking through

Dalveer Bhandari J. held as under:


                 “59. The court has to translate the legislative intention
                 especially when viewed in light of one of the Act's "main
                 objectives": "to minimise the supervisory role of Courts in the
                 arbitral process. [See: Statements of Objects and Reasons
                 of Section 4(v] of the Act].If this Court adds a number of extra
                 requirements such as stamps, seals and originals, we would be
                 enhancing our role, not minimising it. Moreover, the cost of doing
                 business would increase. It takes time to implement such
                 formalities. What is even more worrisome is that the parties'
                 intention to arbitrate would be foiled by formality.Such a stance
                 would run counter to the very idea of arbitration, wherein
                 tribunals all over the world generally bend over backwards to
                 ensure that the parties' intention to arbitrate is upheld. Adding
                 technicalities disturbs the parties' "autonomy of the will" (l'
                 autonomie de la volonti), i.e., their wishes. [For a general
                 discussion on this doctrine see Law and Practice of
                 International Commercial Arbitration, Alan Redfern and Martin
                 Hunter, Street & Maxwell, London, 1986 at pages 4 and 53].
                 60. Technicalities like stamps, seals and even signatures are red
                 tape that have to be removed before the parties can get what
                 they really want - an efficient, effective and potentially cheap
                 resolution of their dispute. The autonomie de la volonti doctrine
                 is enshrined in the policy objectives of the United Nations
                 Commission on International Trade Law ("UNCITRAL") Model
                 Law on International Commercial Arbitration, 1985, on which
                 our Arbitration Act is based. [See Preamble to the Act]. The
                 courts must implement legislative intention. It would be improper
                 and undesirable for the courts to add a number of extra
                 formalities not envisaged by the legislation. The courts directions
                 should be to achieve the legislative intention.”

                                                          [emphasis supplied]



67
     Supra at Note 59; P. 274
68
     (2008) 14 SCC 240

                                       Page 61 of 78
80.8 Relying on the above case, in Trimex International FZE vs Vedanta

Aluminum Limited, India69, this Court held that the implementation of a

contract cannot be affected merely because offer and acceptance was made via

email.


80.9 In the context of the evolving law, it is important to observe that although

an arbitration agreement is liable to stamp duty under the residuary entry, the

technicality of stamping places hurdles in ensuring efficiency and efficacy in

arbitration proceedings. An arbitration agreement does not even mandatorily

require signature for it to be valid as per Section 7 of the Arbitration Act,1996.

The Stamp Act,1899 is rooted in the past and does not take into account the

changing nature of transactions and enactments such as the Arbitration

Act,1996. This is an aspect which would require the attention of the legislature.


                               J. Doctrine of Separability

81. It appears that the Court in Garware(supra) rejected the concept of

separability when it held:

         “15. …..it is difficult to accede to the argument made by the learned
         counsel on behalf of the respondent that Section 16 makes it clear that
         an arbitration agreement has an independent existence of its own, and
         must be applied while deciding an application under Section 11 of the
         1996 Act.”
81.1. Historically, an arbitration agreement was treated as an accessory to the

main contract70. Even if the main contract was found to be invalid or

unenforceable,      the    arbitration     agreement      contained      therein    was    also

considered void71. This diminished the effectiveness of arbitration as a dispute


69
   2010 (1) SCALE 574
70
   Gary B. Born, International Commercial Arbitration (3rd ed., Kluwer Law International
2014) P. 380
71
   Union of India v Kishorilal Gupta & Bros (1959) 1 SCR 493

                                       Page 62 of 78
resolution   mechanism      since    it   made   the   enforceability   of   arbitration

agreements dependent on the validity of the underlying contract. Arbitration

clauses are uniformly regarded in almost every jurisdiction as separate from

and not “an integral part” of the parties’ underlying contract. It is regarded as a

general principle reflected in International Arbitration Conventions, national

arbitration legislations, judicial decisions, institutional arbitration rules and

arbitral awards72. The early statutory recognition of the separability doctrine

has also been recognized in United States with the separability presumption

being a matter of substantive federal arbitration law.73 Even in English law, the

principle of separability stands codified under Section 7 of the English

Arbitration Act, 1996. It has been identified as one of the cornerstones of

arbitration in multiple jurisdictions.

81.2 The argument advanced by the learned Counsel, Gagan Sanghi for the

Appellants that the doctrine of separability is a legal fiction, should not be

accepted in light of the well-established jurisprudence in India as this doctrine

has been consistently upheld by this Court74. Moreover, it stands codified in

Section 16(1) of the Arbitration Act,1996 which reads as under:

      “16(1) The arbitral tribunal may rule on its own jurisdiction, including

      ruling on any objections with respect to the existence or validity of the

      arbitration agreement, and for that purpose, –




72
   Supra at note 70; Page 379-380.
73
   Buckeye Check Cashing Inc. v. Cardegna, 2006 SCC OnLine US SC 14
74
    National Agricultural Co-operative Marketing federation India Ltd. v Gains Trading
Limited (2007) 5 SCC 692; Naihati Jute Mills Ltd. v Khayaliram Jagannath AIR 1968 SC
522; P Manohar Reddy & Bros. v. Maharashtra Krishna Valley Development Corporation &
Ors (2009) 2 SCC 494


                                    Page 63 of 78
      (i)    an arbitration clause which forms part of a contract shall be

             treated as an agreement independent of the other terms of the

             contract; and

      (ii)   a decision by the arbitral tribunal that the contract is null and

             void shall not entail ipso jure the invalidity of the arbitration

             clause.”


81.3 This Court in NN Global(supra) discussed judgments in US,UK and France,

noting the importance of this principle in modern and contemporary arbitral

jurisprudence:

      “4. It is well settled in arbitration jurisprudence that an arbitration
      agreement is a distinct and separate agreement, which is independent
      from the substantive commercial contract in which it is embedded. This
      is based on the premise that when parties enter into a commercial
      contract containing an arbitration clause, they are entering into two
      separate agreements viz. (i) the substantive contract which contains the
      rights and obligations of the parties arising from the commercial
      transaction; and, (ii) the arbitration agreement which contains the
      binding obligation of the parties to resolve their disputes through the
      mode of arbitration.”


81.4 My learned Brother, Justice K.M. Joseph in the majority opinion notes

that the entire basis of the reference stands removed since we are proceeding

on the basis that even a standalone arbitration agreement is liable to stamp

duty. His opinion that the objective behind the principle of treating an

arbitration agreement as a separate agreement is to create a mechanism,

wherein, the arbitral agreement survives the Contract so that the disputes

falling within the Arbitration Agreement can be resolved, is correct. But I’m

unable to agree with the proposition that is canvassed that since an arbitration

agreement is liable to stamp duty, the separability presumption doesn’t take us




                                  Page 64 of 78
further in this case. Let me set out the reason for my disinclination to accept

such proposition.

81.5 As earlier stated in this opinion, the separability doctrine protects the

arbitration clause even if the validity of the main contract is attacked.

Therefore, if an arbitration agreement remains unaffected even if the main

contract is null/void on issues of fraud or misrepresentation, it should not

logically render an arbitration agreement, void on a technicality/formality, like

stamping. The underlying rationale behind the principle of separability would

then be made nugatory. The idea that an arbitration agreement is separate and

independent with its own validity requirements, is to ensure that there is no

hindrance to the enforceability of an arbitration agreement. This doctrine is

also important to reduce circumstances in which the arbitral process may be

halted/delayed. In SMS Tea(supra), it was noted that the doctrine of

separability can extend to an unregistered document, but not to an unstamped

document as the bar under Section 35 is absolute. As I have noted above, the

bar under Section 35 can be cured and the stamp duty can be collected at a

later stage. Thus, NN Global(supra) rightly overruled SMS Tea(supra) on this

aspect. Historically, the separability doctrine was introduced in order to protect

the arbitration clause which, in turn, enabled arbitrators to adjudicate on the

validity of the main contract75. Even though the doctrine of separability and

Kompetenz Kompetenz are distinct as noted in NN Global(supra), reconciling the

two principles would ensure that an arbitrator can rule on the objections of



75
 HM Holtzmann and JE Neuhaus,A Guide to the UNCITRAL Model Law on International
Commercial Arbitration: Legislative History and Commentary (Kluwer Law and Taxation The
Hague 1989) 485

                                     Page 65 of 78
validity, existence as well as necessary stamping, if required. The doctrine of

Kompetenz Kompetenz is discussed in greater detail in the next section.


82.Turning to the decision in Garware(supra), it appears that the Court in

Garware(supra) rejected the concept of severability only by relying on

SBP(Supra) when it held:

      “15. In view of the law laid down by seven-Judge Bench,[SBP(Supra)] it is
      difficult to accede to the argument made by the learned counsel on
      behalf of the respondent that Section 16 makes it clear that an
      arbitration agreement has an independent existence of its own, and must
      be applied while deciding an application under Section 11 of the 1996
      Act.”
83.In SBP(Supra),as we have noticed earlier in this opinion, stood legislatively

overruled as a judge at the Section 11 stage could conduct detailed

adjudication and make a conclusive determination at the pre-referral stage

without deferring it to the arbitrator. As highlighted above, Section 16 and

Section 11 of the Arbitration Act,1996 indicates that there is an overlap when it

comes to the word “existence”. As Section 16 specifically deals with both

existence and validity whereas Section 11 only deals with existence, the former

should be given more weight. As such, the doctrine of Kompetenz Kompetenz

comes into play as the arbitrator can decide on the validity of an agreement

and the referral judge needs to confine his scrutiny to the existence of the

arbitration agreement. However, in SBP(supra) it was generally held that the

referral judge should decide on all aspects. If such a view is to be applied for

answering the present reference, a mini-trial will have to be conducted by the

referral judge. The question to be asked here is should we then push the

Section 11 judge to deal with so many things that he/she left in a situation like




                                  Page 66 of 78
Little Alice in the play Alice in Wonderland as described in Praveen

Electricals(supra)?


84. In the referral order in NN Global(supra), the paragraph 29 in

Garware(supra) was doubted. In the Garware(supra) decision, this Court relied

on United India Insurance Co. ltd. v. Hyundai Engg. & Construction Co. Ltd.

76
     (for short “Hyundai Engg.). The paragraph 29 is extracted below for the

discussion to be followed thereafter:

         “29. This judgment in Hyundai Engg. case [United India Insurance Co.
         Ltd. v. Hyundai Engg. & Construction Co. Ltd., (2018) 17 SCC 607:
         (2019) 2 SCC (Civ) 530] is important in that what was specifically under
         consideration was an arbitration clause which would get activated only
         if an insurer admits or accepts liability. Since on facts it was found that
         the insurer repudiated the claim, though an arbitration clause did
         "exist", so 'to speak, in the policy, it would not exist in law, as was held
         in that judgment, when one important fact is introduced, namely, that
         the insurer has not admitted or accepted liability. Likewise. in the facts
         of the present case. it is clear that the arbitration clause that is
         contained in the sub-contract would not "exist" as a matter of law until
         the sub-contract is duly stamped, as has been held by us above. The
         argument that Section 11 (6-A) deals with "existence", as opposed to
         Section 8. Section 16 and Section 45, which deal with "validity" of an
         arbitration agreement is answered by this Court's understanding of the
         expression "existence" in Hyundai Engg. case [United India Insurance
         Co. Ltd. v. Hyundai Engg. & Construction Co. Ltd., (2018) 17 SCC 607 :
         (2019) 2 SCC (Civ) 530] . as followed by us.”


84.1. In Hyundai(supra), the issue of stamping was not at all a matter of

consideration and the Court decided on the arbitrability of the dispute and

whether it was an excepted matter and in that process, held that the

arbitration agreement would not “exist-in-law”, as the arbitration clause was

contingent on whether the insurer accepted liability. In these circumstances,

the application of the proposition in Hyundai Engg(supra) to deal with the issue

of unstamped document in Garware(supra) appears to be an incorrect


76
     (2018) 7 SCC 607

                                      Page 67 of 78
approach. This is because in Garware(supra), the Court found that the issue of

stamping would go into the existence of the arbitration agreement in law. This

was done by erroneously importing the principle enunciated in Hyundai(supra)

and therefore the earlier Hyundai(supra) which had nothing to do with the

stamping of the document, should have been distinguished. At this point, we

may also notice the argument of the Learned Amicus who argued that the

Court in Hyundai Engg(supra) relied on Oriental Insurance Co. Ltd. v.

Narbheram Power and Steel (P) Ltd77 which never had the occasion to interpret

Section 11(6A). For these reasons, I am of the considered view that applying

the Hyundai(supra) principle to Garware(supra) is not acceptable. Consequently,

the finding of the Court in Para 147.1 in Vidya Drolia(supra) placing reliance on

the above paragraph viz. Para 29 in Garware(supra) also appears to be

incorrect. The proposition of law in NN Global(supra) is therefore found to be

correct.


       L. Kompetenz Kompetenz and the issue of Judicial Logjam in India


85. Legal scholars have noted that the principle of Kompetenz Komptenz has

been adopted in various forms in different countries78. Article 16 of the

UNCITRAL Model Law adopted the principle of Kompetenz Kompetenz providing

that an arbitral tribunal has the jurisdiction to investigate and rule on its own

jurisdiction. In a recent decision of the US Supreme Court in Henry Schein, Inc.

v Archer and White Sales, Inc79, it was held that where an arbitration clause


77
   (2018) 6 SCC 534
78
   John J. Barcello III, Who Decides the Arbitrators’ Jurisdiction? Separability and
Competence-Competence in Transnational Perspective, Vanderbilt Journal of Transnational
Law, Vol. 36, No.4, October 2003
79
   2019 SCCOnline US SC 1

                                     Page 68 of 78
delegates the decision of arbitrability to arbitrators, Courts should have no say

even if they consider the argument in favour as “wholly groundless”. Justice

Brett Kavanaugh opined:


         “Just as a Court may not decide a merits question that the parties have
         delegated to an arbitrator, a Court may not decide an arbitrability
         question that the parties have delegated to an arbitrator.”

 Proceeding further, Section 16(1) of the Arbitration Act,1996 reads as under:

         “16. Competence of arbitral tribunal to rule on its jurisdiction.—
         (1) The arbitral tribunal may rule on its own jurisdiction, including ruling
         on any objections with respect to the existence or validity of the
         arbitration agreement, and for that purpose,—
         (a) an arbitration clause which forms part of a contract shall be treated
         as an agreement independent of the other terms of the contract; and
         (b) a decision by the arbitral tribunal that the contract is null and void
         shall not entail ipso jure the invalidity of the arbitration clause.”

85.1 It is clear from Section 16(1) of Arbitration Act,1996 which uses the

word “including” that an arbitral tribunal can not only rule on its own

jurisdiction but also “any” objections on existence or validity. This Court in

Weatherford Oiltool Middle East Limited vs Baker Hughes Singapore PTE80

where the issue concerned the validity of an unstamped document, noted as

under:
         “8. The bare reading of the afore-stated provision makes it clear that
         arbitral tribunal is competent not only to rule on its own jurisdiction
         but to rule on the issue of the existence or validity of the arbitration
         agreement. It further clarifies that an arbitration clause which forms
         part of a contract shall be treated as an agreement independent of the
         other terms of the contract, and that a decision by the arbitral
         tribunal that the contract is null and void shall not entail ipso jure the
         invalidity of the arbitration clause.”




80
     2022 SCC OnLine 1464



                                      Page 69 of 78
 85.2. Discussing the Kompetenz Kompetenz principles in NN Global(supra), it

 was noted:

       “4.3. The doctrine of kompetenz – kompetenz implies that the arbitral
       tribunal has the competence to determine and rule on its own
       jurisdiction, including objections with respect to the existence, validity,
       and scope of the arbitration agreement, in the first instance, which is
       subject to judicial scrutiny by the courts at a later stage of the
       proceedings. Under the 8 Arbitration Act, the challenge before the Court
       is maintainable only after the final award is passed as provided by sub-
       section (6) of Section 16. The stage at which the order of the tribunal
       regarding its jurisdiction is amenable to judicial review, varies from
       jurisdiction to jurisdiction. The doctrine of kompetenz – kompetenz has
       evolved to minimize judicial intervention at the pre-reference stage, and
       reduce unmeritorious challenges raised on the issue of jurisdiction of the
       arbitral tribunal.”

                                                                 [emphasis supplied]

 85.3. Justice Thakker emphasized this in his dissenting opinion in SBP(supra)

 where it was held that the legislature intended to allow the tribunal to rule on

 its own jurisdiction and the function of the Chief Justice under Section 11(6)

 was only to “appoint an arbitrator without wasting any time.”


 85.4. At this point we may benefit by referring to George A. Bermann whose

 article titled “Role of Courts at the threshold of Arbitration”81 would have some

 relevance in this discussion:

       “Positions at the polar ends of the spectrum of judicial involvement are
       not especially attractive. A system that permits plenary judicial enquiries
       into all aspects of enforceability of arbitration agreements prior to
       arbitration risks inviting costs, delay and judicial involvement in a very
       big way, contrary to arbitration’s basis premises. On the other hand, a
       system that treats access to a court for these purposes as wholly off-
       limits, irrespective of the seriousness of the challenge, risks exacting too
       great a price in terms of arbitral legitimacy. Efficacy may be achievable
       through less drastic means.”



81
  George A. Bermann, The Role of National Courts at the Threshold of Arbitration, 28
American Review of International Arbitration 291 (2017) Available at
https://scholarship.law.columbia.edu/faculty_scholarship/3012

                                      Page 70 of 78
 85.5. Specific to the Indian context, while discussing Kompetenz Kompetenz,

 the overburdened judiciary and huge pendency of cases in our Courts cannot

 also be overlooked. The intent behind preferring arbitration would stand

 defeated, if the Court is expected to deal not only with the issue of existence

 but also validity of the agreement, at the stage of appointment of the

 arbitrator. In this context, the following observations were made in the 246th

 LCI report(supra) noted:

         “22. Judicial intervention in arbitration proceedings adds significantly to
         the delays in the arbitration process and ultimately negates the benefits
         of arbitration. Two reasons can be attributed to such delays. First, the
         judicial system is over-burdened with work and is not sufficiently
         efficient to dispose cases, especially commercial cases, with the speed
         and dispatch that is required. Second, the bar for judicial intervention
         (despite the existence of section 5 of the Act) has been consistently set at a
         low threshold by the Indian judiciary, which translates into many more
         admissions of cases in Court which arise out of or are related to the Act.”

                                                                 [emphasis supplied]

 85.6. Considering the large pendency of cases as noted by the 246th LCI

 Report(supra), it is essential that Section 16 of the Arbitration Act,1996 is given

 full play. Discussing the history of arbitration law in India, the 246th LCI

 Report(supra) quoted the observations of Justice D.A. Desai in Guru Nanak

 Foundation v Ratan Singh and Sons82 where commenting on the working of

 the Arbitration Act, 1940, it was noted that the challenge to arbitral

 proceedings in Courts have made “lawyers laugh and legal philosophers weep”.

 The situation is not different today as was recently observed by this Court in

 M/s Shree Vishnu Constructions v. The Engineer in Chief Military Engineering

 Service and others83 where it was noted that several applications under


82
     (1981) 4 SCC 634
83
     SLP(C) No. 5306/2022 dated 1.4.2022

                                       Page 71 of 78
section 11 were decided and disposed of after a period of four years which

 defeated the very purpose of the amended Arbitration Act,1996.                         Such

 observation was made on a detailed report/statement on the number of

 pending section 11 applications before the Telangana High Court. This Court

 noticed that even an application filed in the year 2006 was still pending. The

 High Court Chief Justices across the country were accordingly requested to

 ensure that applications under section 11, be decided within a period of six

 months.

 85.7 This Court in the recent judgment in Intercontinental Hotels Group (India)

 Private Ltd. v. Waterline Hotels Pvt. Ltd84 on the issue of insufficiently

 /incorrectly stamped documents, proceeded to appoint the arbitrator under

 Section 11(6), considering the time-sensitivity while dealing with arbitration. It

 left open the issue of stamping to be decided at a later stage.


 85.8 Importantly, Section 11(13) of the Arbitration Act,1996 provides that

 appointment of Arbitrators should be made within 60 days and such a

 provision makes it amply clear that substantive adjudication cannot be done

 by Courts, at the pre-referral stage. This was canvassed in Garware(supra)

 but the Court instead set a deadline for 45 days for adjudication and 15 days

 for appointment of arbitrator with the following observation:

         “37. One reasonable way of harmonising the provisions contained in
         Sections 33 and 34 of the Maharashtra Stamp Act, which is a general
         statute insofar as it relates to safeguarding revenue, and Section 11(13) of
         the 1996 Act, which applies specifically to speedy resolution of disputes
         by appointment of an arbitrator expeditiously, is by declaring that while
         proceeding with the Section 11 application, the High Court must impound
         the instrument which has not borne stamp duty and hand it over to the
84
     2022 SCC OnLine SC 83

                                      Page 72 of 78
        authority under the Maharashtra Stamp Act, who will then decide issues
        qua payment of stamp duty and penalty (if any) as expeditiously as
        possible, and preferably within a period of 45 days from the date on which
        the authority receives the instrument. As soon as stamp duty and penalty
        (if any) are paid on the instrument, any of the parties can bring the
        instrument to the notice of the High Court, which will then proceed to
        expeditiously hear and dispose of the Section 11 application. This will
        also ensure that once a Section 11 application is allowed and an
        arbitrator is appointed, the arbitrator can then proceed to decide the
        dispute within the time frame provided by Section 29A of the 1996 Act.”

85.9 The above enunciation in Garware(supra) as is apparent goes against

the legislative mandate which had prescribed the deadline of 60 days for

appointment of arbitrators under Section 11(13) of the Arbitration Act,

1996.    The criticism that a deadline of 45 days would be impractical,

cannot also be brushed aside lightly.

                           N. Discussion on Vidya Drolia

86. This case was concerned with the arbitrability of landlord-tenant disputes

and the forum before which the issue of arbitrability must first be raised. The

paragraph 146 as quoted below may require a relook in the context of the issue

under consideration.

        “146. We now proceed to examine the question, whether the word
        "existence" in Section 11 merely refers to contract formation (whether
        there is an arbitration agreement) and excludes the question of
        enforcement (validity) and therefore the latter falls outside the
        jurisdiction of the court at the referral stage. On jurisprudentially and
        textualism it is possible to differentiate between existence of an
        arbitration agreement and validity of an arbitration agreement. Such
        interpretation can draw support from the plain meaning of the word
        "existence". However, it is equally possible, jurisprudentially and on
        contextualism, to hold that an agreement has no existence if is not
        enforceable and not binding. Existence of an arbitration agreement
        presupposes a valid agreement which would be enforced by the court by
        relegating the parties to arbitration. Legalistic and plain meaning
        interpretation would be contrary to the contextual background including
        the definition clause and would result in unpalatable consequences. A

                                    Page 73 of 78
         reasonable and just interpretation of existence requires understanding
         the context. the purpose and the relevant legal norms applicable for a
         binding and enforceable arbitration agreement. An agreement evidenced
         in writing has no meaning unless the parties can be compelled to adhere
         and abide by the terms. A party cannot sue and claim rights based on
         an unenforceable document. Thus, there are good reasons to hold that
         an arbitration agreement exists only when it is valid and legal. A void
         and unenforceable understanding is no agreement to do anything.
         Existence of an arbitration agreement means an arbitration agreement
         that meets and satisfies the statutory requirements of both the
         Arbitration Act and the Contract Act and when it is enforceable in law.”


86.1. As can be seen, the Court equated existence and validity and it was held

that a contract only exists if it is valid. And it is valid only if it is enforceable.

As far as the issue in the present case is concerned, the authors’ Comments in

Russell on Arbitration85(24th Edition) in the context of English law provide

useful pointers in this context:

         “Existence and Validity of the arbitration agreement. .. the Court
         draws a distinction between existence of the arbitration agreement,
         which is likely to be a matter for the Court(unless a stay under the
         inherent jurisdiction is granted) and its validity, which wherever
         possible should be left to the arbitrators.”
                                                            [emphasis      in
         original]
86.2 I have already discussed that in the Indian regime, the Arbitrator under

Section 16 has the jurisdiction to decide on “existence” and “validity”. A plain

reading of Section 11(6A) would show that the examination by Court is confined

only to “existence” and not even “validity”. Moreover, in the present reference,

we are only concerned with the formal requirement of stamping and not

arbitrability. Applying contextual interpretation to render an arbitration

agreement void on the formal requirement of stamping would defeat the very

purpose of the Arbitration Act,1996. A document cannot be rendered invalid or

unenforceable especially if the defect is curable under the Stamp Act,1899 as


85
     Supra at note 58; Chapter 7, P. 369

                                           Page 74 of 78
noted earlier. Moreover, none of the provisions in the Stamp Act, 1899 have the

effect of rendering a document invalid. Thus, we find the position in Vidya

Drolia(supra) to the extent that it relies on Garware(supra) to be incorrect.

                                       O. Conclusion

87. Harking back to Charles Evans Hughes with whose words we began the

judgment, let us conclude with the following quote of the same judge reflected

in Prophets By Honor86:

          "There are some who think it desirable that dissents should not be
          disclosed as they detract from the force of the judgement.
          Undoubtedly, they do. When unanimity can be obtained without
          sacrifice of conviction, it strongly commends the decision to public
          confidence. But unanimity, which is merely formal, which is recorded
          at the expense of strong, conflicting views, is not desirable in a court
          of last resort, whatever may be the effect on public opinion at the
          time. This is so because what must ultimately sustain the court in
          public confidence of is the character and independence of the
          judges."

87.1 The practice of dissent in judicial decision-making process plays a

critical     role   in   revealing   constitutional    commitment       to   deliberative

democracy. Allowing judges to express differing views and engage in a

dialogue about the law and its interpretation can potentially lead to a more

nuanced and refined understanding of the law, as the Court grapples with

competing interpretations and seeks to reconcile them in a principled

manner.

87.2 Confronted with a similar situation which is confronting us today where

the present opinion is the minority one, Justice Stephen Breyer of the US

Supreme Court in his dissenting opinion87 in a question in the context of


86
     Alan Barth, Prophets with Honor,1974 Ed. P 3-6
87
     Badgerow v. Walters, 596 U.S. 2022

                                       Page 75 of 78
Federal Arbitration Act (FAA) spoke of interpreting not only the purpose of the

Statute but also the likely consequence:

            “When interpreting a statute, it is often helpful to consider
            not simply the statute’s literal words, but also the statute’s
            purposes and the likely consequences of our interpretation.
            Otherwise, we risk adopting an interpretation that, even if
            consistent with text, creates unnecessary complexity and
            confusion.”

87.3. The objective behind the enactment of the Arbitration Act,1996 was to,

inter alia, avoid procedural complexity and the delay in litigation before

Courts. Impounding and stamping at the Section 11 stage would frustrate

the very purpose of the amended Arbitration Act,1996 as the enforcement of

arbitration agreements would be stalled on an issue, which is capable of

being resolved at a later stage. To defer stamping to the stage of the

arbitrator would in my view achieve the objective of both the Arbitration

Act,1996 and the Stamp Act,1899.

87.4. The contours of the jurisdiction of the judge referring matters for

arbitration, cannot be permitted to suffer from confusion and ambiguity. As

can be seen, the present 5 judge-Bench could not provide clarity on the

issue referred to us, on account of the fractured verdict, leading to legal

uncertainty. The constitution of a larger Bench in this Court is certainly not

commonplace as the last occasion when 7 judges assembled was in the year

2017. Around 5 matters as I am informed, are already awaiting the attention

of 7 judges Bench. In such backdrop, the interplay between the Acts and

how its objective is to be achieved in the course of Arbitral proceedings

either at the referral stage or thereafter is much too important to be left

lingering for a clarificatory verdict by a larger Bench. Therefore, I would


                                  Page 76 of 78
appeal to the legislative wing of the State to revisit the Amendments which

may be necessary in the Stamp Act,1899 in its application to the Arbitration

Act,1996. The State might put into place a convenient mechanism which

would efface the inconsistencies in both the Arbitration Act,1996 and the

Stamp Act,1899. If we look at the legislative intent of the Arbitration Act,1996

and what our country is hoping to be as the destination of choice for

Arbitration, I’m of the considered opinion that it would be appropriate to

interpret the statutory interplay in a constructive manner without defeating

the legislative intent and thwarting the speedy referral to arbitration.

88. Following the above discussion, my opinion on the referred issue are as

follows:


   i)      The examination of stamping and impounding need not be done at the

           threshold by a Court, at the pre-reference stage under Section 11 of

           the Arbitration Act, 1996.

   ii)     Non-stamping/insufficient       stamping     of      the    substantive

           contract/instrument would not render the arbitration agreement non-

           existent in law and unenforceable/void, for the purpose of referring a

           matter for arbitration. Garware(supra) wrongly applied the principle

           in Hyundai(supra) to hold that an arbitration agreement would not

           exist-in-law if it is unstamped/insufficiently stamped. An arbitration

           agreement should not be rendered void if it is suffering stamp

           deficiency which is a curable defect. To this extent, Garware(supra)

           and Hyundai(supra) do not set out the correct law.




                                   Page 77 of 78
   iii)   The decision in SMS Tea(supra) stands overruled. Paragraphs 22 and

          29 in Garware (supra) which were approved in paragraphs 146 and

          147 in Vidya Drolia (supra) are overruled to that extent.


89. The invaluable assistance rendered by Mr. Gourab Banerjee, learned

Senior Counsel as the Amicus Curiae deserves a special mention in finalizing

this opinion.


                                                      ……….……………………J.
                                                     [HRISHIKESH ROY]


NEW DELHI
APRIL 25, 2023




                                 Page 78 of 78
                                            Reportable

          IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
           CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION

           Civil Appeal Nos. 3802-3803 of 2020

M/S N.N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE
PRIVATE LIMITED
                                          …Appellant
                              Versus

M/S INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS.

                                       …Respondents

                            JUDGMENT

C.T. RAVIKUMAR, J.

1.    I have had the advantage of reading the erudite
opinion of my learned brother Justice K. M. Joseph, for
himself and learned brother Justice Aniruddha Bose, and
the separate opinion of learned brother Justice
Hrishikesh Roy, concurring with the opinion of learned
brother Justice Ajay Rastogi, but disagreeing with the
opinion of learned brother Justice K.M. Joseph.
Regretfully, I record my inability to agree with the
opinion of learned brother Justice Ajay Rastogi as also
with the concurrent opinion of learned brother Justice




 CA No. 3802-3803 of 2020                        Page 1 of 19
Hrishikesh Roy. While fully endorsing the opinion of
learned brother Justice K. M. Joseph, to which my
learned brother Justice Aniruddha Bose has concurred, I
wish to add a concise addendum as under, in respect of
some of the issues, of course, only in support of findings
returned thereon.
2.    The issue(s) under reference, the modification of
the referred question and the allied questions cropped
up for consideration have been elaborately dealt with
and answered in the erudite draft judgment of my
learned brother Justice K.M. Joseph and hence, it is
absolutely unessential to refer them. While considering
the power of the Court under Section 11(6) of the
Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 it is to be noted
that the position of Section 11(6) before and after the
amendment and Section 11(6A), inserted by Act 2 of 2016
with effect from 23.10.2015 have been referred to in all
the three opinions. Hence, I do not think it necessary to
extract those provisions to avoid the risk of repetition.
Certainly, the powers conferred under Section 16 of the
Act often referred to as ‘Kompetenz-Kompetenz’ make it
clear that the Arbitral Tribunal is empowered and thus
got competence to rule on its own jurisdiction, including
on all jurisdictional issues and existence or validity of the




 CA No. 3802-3803 of 2020                           Page 2 of 19
arbitration agreement. This provision would have its
full-play when appointment of the arbitrator takes place,
on consensus, by the parties, in accordance with the
terms of the arbitration agreement or by designated
arbitration institution, without the intervention of the
Court. But then, the provision under Section 11 (6) of the
Act applies when the procedures envisaged under the
arbitration agreement have not worked and an
application is filed for invocation of the power
thereunder before the Court for making appointment of
the Arbitrator(s).             The controversy in regard to the
nature of the function to be performed under Section 11
(6) has been set at rest by the Seven-Judge Bench
decision in SBP & Co. v. Patel Engg. Ltd.1 by holding
that it is ‘judicial’. It continues to be ‘judicial’ despite the
amendment brought to the said section and even after
the insertion of Section 11 (6A) in the Act. An application
for ‘Appointment of Arbitrators’ is filed, by one party
asserting the existence of an arbitration agreement or
arbitration clause in an ‘instrument’ executed between
the parties concerned. Therefore, invariably what is to
be decided, in invocation of the said powers, is the


1
    (2005) 8 SCC 618




    CA No. 3802-3803 of 2020                            Page 3 of 19
asserted factum of existence of arbitration agreement or
arbitration clause in the said instrument and invariably,
in this regard the party who invoked the said power
under Section 11(6), has to produce that very relied on
instrument for inspection. The question is whether while
passing an order the Court exercising the power under
Section 11 (6) receives any evidence, for the limited
purpose of ascertaining the truth of the assertion that the
document thus produced is an arbitration agreement or
an instrument containing arbitration clause.       In this
regard it is only apposite to refer to the meaning
ascribable to the term ‘evidence’. As per Peter Murphy
in ‘A Practical Approach to Evidence (Second Edition),
1985, ‘evidence’ may be defined as any ‘material’ which
tends to persuade the Court of the truth or probity of
same fact asserted before it. As noted hereinbefore, in
such an application under Section 11 (6), invariably the
fact to be asserted would be the existence of ‘arbitration
agreement’ and in proof thereof the material viz., the
document would be produced. I will refer to the relevant
provision in the statutory scheme viz., the Appointment
of Arbitrators by the Chief Justice of India Scheme, 1996,
later.   Now, when that is received, it is nothing but
receiving evidence to that limited purpose for deciding




 CA No. 3802-3803 of 2020                         Page 4 of 19
the question whether the ‘instrument’ produced is one
executed             between   the   parties   is   an   arbitration
agreement or whether the instrument contained an
arbitration clause. Necessarily, if the answer is in the
affirmative, an order appointing Arbitrator(s) would be
passed and an answer in the negative would be the end
of such proceedings. In that view of the matter, it can
safely be said that what is to be decided while
performing the function under Section 11 (6) is relating a
‘jurisdictional aspect’ as only on returning a finding that
there exists an arbitration agreement or arbitration
clause, in the material so produced, that arbitrator(s)
would be appointed. The answering of that question, on
receiving the ‘instrument’, is the performance of the
function describable as “acting upon” the document thus
produced. In other words, as discernible from the
statement of law by M.C. Desai, J. in Mt. Bittan Bibi &
Anr. v. Kuntu Lal & Anr..2, (the relevant paragraph 8
extracted in the opinion of learned brother Justice K.M.
Joseph), ‘acting upon’ is not included in the act of
admitting an instrument, though it can be acted upon,
later, subject to permissibility in law therefor.


2
    ILR [1952] 2 All 984




    CA No. 3802-3803 of 2020                               Page 5 of 19
3.    The cleavage in opinion occurs on the issue as to
whether the Court called upon to invoke the power
under Section 11 (6) should or could exercise the power
coupled with duty under Section 33 of the Indian Stamp
Act, 1899, when the document carrying the arbitration
agreement or arbitration clause is found unstamped or
insufficiently stamped or without going into such matter,
should it confine its exercise of power in the matter of
appointment of Arbitrator(s) only and refrain itself from
proceeding further in view of the mandate under Section
33 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899. I have already recorded
my agreement with the opinion of my learned brother
K.M. Joseph that exercise of power coupled with duty
under Section 33 of the Stamp Act cannot be accused of
judicial interference in contravention to Section 5 of the
Act and further that it shall not be confused with
examination whether an arbitration agreement or
arbitration clause in the said instrument, exists so as to
appoint arbitrator in invocation of the power under
Section 11(6) of the Act. In that view of the matter, the
provisions under Section 11(6A) or 16 of the Act cannot
act as a rider for the exercise of the said power under
Section 33 of the Stamp Act.


 CA No. 3802-3803 of 2020                         Page 6 of 19
4.       In the aforesaid context, it is relevant to refer to
Sub-sections (1), (2) and clause (b) of Sub-section 2, of
Section 33 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899. They read
thus:-
          “33.    Examination      and     impounding        of
          instruments. —
          (1) Every person having by law or consent of
          parties authority to receive evidence, and every
          person in charge of a public office, except an
          officer of police, before whom any instrument,
          chargeable, in his opinion, with duty, is produced
          or comes in the performance of his functions, shall,
          if it appears to him that such instrument is not duly
          stamped, impound the same.
          (2) For that purpose every such person shall
          examine every instrument so chargeable and so
          produced or coming before him, in order to
          ascertain whether it is stamped with a stamp of the
          value and description required by the law in force
          in 2 [India] when such instrument was executed or
          first executed: Provided that—
          (a) nothing herein contained shall be deemed to
          require any Magistrate or Judge of a Criminal
          Court to examine or impound, if he does not think
          fit so to do, any instrument coming before him in




 CA No. 3802-3803 of 2020                                  Page 7 of 19
        the course of any proceeding other than a
        proceeding under Chapter XII or Chapter XXXVI
        of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (V of
        1898);
        (b) in the case of a Judge of a High Court, the duty
        of examining and impounding any instrument
        under this section may be delegated to such officer
        as the Court appoints in this behalf.

5.    I have already found that receiving the very
‘instrument’ which is carrying the arbitration agreement
or containing an arbitration clause from the party who
asserts its existence is essentially an act of receiving the
evidence, in that limited sense. Therefore, how can the
Court, which is having authority and competence to
receive evidence, for the purpose of invoking the power
under Section 11 (6), abstain from proceeding further in
terms of Section 33 if it appears to it that such instrument
produced before it, though required to be stamped, is
unstamped or is not duly stamped. According to me, in
terms of the mandate under Sub-section (2) of Section 33,
for that purpose, the Section 11 Judge who received
evidence shall ‘examine’ the instrument so chargeable
and so produced in order to ascertain whether it is
stamped with a stamp of the value and description




 CA No. 3802-3803 of 2020                               Page 8 of 19
required by the law in force in India, when such
instrument was executed or first executed. Proviso (b)
which is extracted hereinbefore, would only permit a
Judge of the High Court for delegation of the duty of
examining and impounding any such instrument to such
officer as the Court may appoint in that behalf. Thus, it
only gives discretion to a Judge of the High Court to
delegate the duty of examining and impounding any
such instrument in the manner mentioned under the said
proviso if he chooses not to proceed in the manner
provided for impounding the instrument in accordance
with the relevant provision, by himself.     When that be
the provision under Section 33 (1) and (2), a conjoint
reading of which obviously makes it mandatory for the
Court exercising the power under Section 11 (6) to
proceed in terms of the mandate under Section 33 when
the circumstances legally invites its invocation. A contra
view, according to me, would render Sub-section (2) of
Section 33 and proviso (b) redundant and would defeat
the very soul of the provisions as relates their application
in respect of application filed under Section 11(6) of the
Act.
6.     The Bar under Section 35 of the Stamp Act on
admission of instruments not duly stamped in evidence,




 CA No. 3802-3803 of 2020                          Page 9 of 19
as is evident from proviso (a) to it, is not permanent and
is curable by following procedures provided thereunder
and making an endorsement as provided under Section
42(1) of the Stamp Act. Sub-section (2) of Section 42
makes it clear that every such instrument so endorsed
shall thereupon be admissible in evidence and be acted
upon and authenticated as it had been duly stamped. The
upshot of the discussion is that being unstamped or
insufficiently stamped, the agreement would not be
available to be ‘admitted in evidence’ and ‘to be acted
upon’, till it is validated following the procedures
prescribed under the provisions of the Stamp Act and till
then, it would not exist ‘in law’.
7.    Another point which I intend to make in addition to
the opinion of my learned brother Justice K. M. Joseph, is
with respect to the meaning ascribable to the expression
‘certified copy’ which is permissible to be produced
along     with    the      application   for   appointment      of
Arbitrator(s) in terms of paragraph 2 (a) of the scheme
framed by the Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India, in
exercise of power under Section 11(10) of the Act,
namely, the Appointment of Arbitrators by the Chief
Justice of India Scheme, 1996. Paragraph 2 and sub-
paragraph (a) thereof read thus:-


CA No. 3802-3803 of 2020                              Page 10 of 19
        2. Submission of Request:- The request to the
        Chief Justice under Sub-section (4) or Sub-
        section (5) or Sub-section (6) of Section 11 shall
        be made in writing and shall be accompanied by
        –

              (a) the original arbitration agreement or a duly

              certified copy thereof.

8.    In the opinion of my learned brother Justice K. M.
Joseph this issue has been elaborately considered from
paragraphs 77 to 89. While concurring with the conclusions
and findings thereof, I would like to give my own reasons as
to why the expression ‘certified copy’ should be understood
with reference to Section 74 and 76 of the Indian Evidence
Act, 1872, (hereinafter referred to as ‘Evidence Act’) and why
the said form of secondary evidence is available to be ‘acted
upon’ without formal proof of existence and execution of the
original document.
9.    Section 62 defines ‘primary evidence’ thus:-

        62. Primary evidence. –– Primary evidence
        means the document itself produced for the
        inspection of the Court. Explanation 1. ––Where a
        document is executed in several parts, each part is
        primary evidence of the document. Where a
        document is executed in counterpart, each




CA No. 3802-3803 of 2020                              Page 11 of 19
        counterpart being executed by one or some of the
        parties only, each counterpart is primary evidence
        as against the parties executing it. Explanation 2. –
        – Where a number of documents are all made by
        one uniform process, as in the case of printing,
        lithography or photography, each is primary
        evidence of the contents of the rest; but, where
        they are all copies of a common original, they are
        not primary evidence of the contents of the
        original.
        A person is shown to have been in possession of a
        number of placards, all printed at one time from
        one original. Any one of the placards is primary
        evidence of the contents of any other, but no one of
        them is primary evidence of the contents of the
        original.

10.   Section 63 of the Indian Evidence Act defines
secondary evidence which reads thus: -

        “63. Secondary evidence. –– Secondary evidence
        means and includes ––
        (1) certified copies given under the provisions
        hereinafter contained;
        (2) copies made from the original by mechanical
        processes     which   in   themselves   ensure    the




CA No. 3802-3803 of 2020                                 Page 12 of 19
        accuracy of the copy, and copies compared with
        such copies;
        (3) copies made from or compared with the
        original;
        (4) counterparts of documents as against the
        parties who did not execute them;
        (5) oral accounts of the contents of a document
        given by some person who has himself seen it.”

11.   Thus, the definition ‘secondary evidence’ means
and includes what are mentioned in clauses ‘1 to 5’.
Though, the inclusive definition speaks of different kinds
of secondary evidence, such as, mentioned under
clauses ‘1 to 5’, a careful scanning of the Evidence Act
would reveal that copies which fall under clause (1) of
Section 63 alone carry the presumption of genuineness
and correctness, by virtue of the provision under Section
79 of the Evidence Act. Section 79 reads thus:-

        “79. Presumption as to genuineness of certified
        copies. –– The Court shall presume [to be
        genuine] every document purporting to be a
        certificate, certified copy or other document,
        which is by Law declared to be admissible as
        evidence of any particular fact, and which purports
        to be duly certified by any officer [of the Central




CA No. 3802-3803 of 2020                              Page 13 of 19
        Government or of a State Government, or by any
        officer [in the State of Jammu and Kashmir] who is
        duly    authorized   thereto    by   the    Central
        Government]:
        Provided that such document is substantially in the
        form and purports to be executed in the manner
        directed by law in that behalf. The Court shall also
        presume that any officer by whom any such
        document purports to be signed or certified, held,
        when he signed it, the official character which he
        claims in such paper.”

12.   Thus, it can be said that the genuineness and
correctness of copies falling under clause 1 of Section 63
shall be presumed under Section 79 of the Evidence Act.
The definition of ‘shall presume’ is defined under Section
4 of the Evidence Act, thus:-

        “Shall presume”.––Whenever it is directed by this
        Act that the Court shall presume a fact, it shall
        regard such fact as proved, unless and until it is
        disproved.

13.   Section 79 proceeds upon the maxim ‘omnia
praesumuntur rite esse acta, i.e., all acts are presumed to
be done rightly and regularly. When the acts of official




CA No. 3802-3803 of 2020                               Page 14 of 19
nature went through the process, the presumption arises
in favour of the regular performance.
14.   Section 65 of the Evidence Act, in so far as, it is
relevant reads thus:-

        65. Cases in which secondary evidence relating
        to   documents      may    be    given.––Secondary
        evidence may be given of the existence, condition,
        or contents of a document in the following cases: –
        –
        ……
        (e) when the original is a public document within
        the meaning of section 74;
        (f) when the original is a document of which a
        certified copy is permitted by this Act, or by any
        other law in force in [India] to be given in evidence;

15.   In terms of the provisions under Section 79 of the
Evidence Act a certified copy of a document allegedly
carrying an arbitration clause is produced and that
document can be received in evidence for the purpose
of Section 11 (6) of the Act and by virtue of Section 79 of
the Evidence Act, the Court shall presume the
genuineness of the document which could be accepted
as evidence and shall presume the genuineness of the
contents of the document unless the presumption is not




CA No. 3802-3803 of 2020                                 Page 15 of 19
rebutted by other evidence. Thus, it can be seen that
besides permitting to produce the original document
which is primary evidence in terms of Section 62 of the
Evidence Act, despite the existence of different kinds of
secondary evidence, under paragraph 2 (a) of Scheme
framed by the Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India, only
certified copy alone is permitted to be adduced,
purposefully, as by virtue of Section 79 of Evidence Act
presumption of genuineness and correctness of the
certified copies of the documents mentioned under
Section 63 (1) of the Evidence Act shall have to be
presumed.         In other words, the other modes of
production of secondary evidence would not permit the
Court to draw the presumption of genuineness and
correctness and that is why in paragraph 2(a) of the
scheme framed in terms of the provisions under Section
11 (10) provides only for production of certified copy of
the primary evidence to act upon for the purpose of
applying for appointment of Arbitrator under Section 11
(6) of the Act, in the alternative of production of the
original instrument.
16.   As already found the nature of exercise of power
under Section 11 (6) is ‘judicial’ and therefore, it was
thought only fit to permit to exercise such power only on




CA No. 3802-3803 of 2020                        Page 16 of 19
the original instrument or else, on its certified copy, to
be understood with reference to Section 63 (1) read with
Section 74 and 76 of the Evidence Act. When once the
intention behind paragraph 2(a) of the scheme is
understood in that manner with reference to the
provisions under Section 63 (1), 74, 76 and 79 of the
Evidence Act, the expression ‘certified copy’ employed
in paragraph 2(a) of the scheme framed under Section
11(10) of the Act cannot be interpreted to mean any other
kind of copies provided under Section 63 of the Evidence
Act other than under Section 63 (1) of the Evidence Act.
17.   Learned brother Justice K. M. Joseph, after
explaining as to how the expression ‘certified copy’ must
be understood, held that the Court exercising the power
under Section 11 (6) has to exercise the power under
Section 33 of the Indian Stamp Act when the original is
produced before the Court. In other words, according
to me, it is rightfully held that when the original
document carrying the arbitration clause is produced
and if it is found that it is unstamped or insufficiently
stamped, the Court acting under Section 11 is duty
bound to act under Section 33 of the Indian Stamp Act as
held in the draft judgment.


CA No. 3802-3803 of 2020                         Page 17 of 19
18.   I am also concurring with the view that what is
permissible to be produced as secondary evidence i.e.,
other than the original document in terms of Section 2(a)
of the scheme framed under Section 11(10) of the Act, is
nothing but certified copy as mentioned earlier. But such
a certified copy, would not be available to be proceeded
with under Section 33 of the Stamp Act if it is unstamped
or insufficiently stamped. In such circumstances, such
certified copy shall not be acted upon.
19.   In the contextual situation, to understand the
difference between ‘certified copy’ and ‘a copy certified
to be true copy’, it is only appropriate to refer to Rule 1
of Order VIII of the Supreme Court Rules, 2013, framed
invoking the power conferred by Article 145 of the
Constitution of India. Rule 1 of Order VIII reads thus: -

      “1. The officers of the Court shall not receive any
      pleading, petition, affidavit or other document,
      except original exhibits and certified copies of
      public documents, unless it is fairly and legibly
      written, type-written or lithographed in double-line
      spacing, on one side of standard petition paper,
      demy-foolscap size, or of the size of 29.7 cm x 21 cm,
      or paper which is ordinarily used in the High Courts
      for the purpose. Copies filed for the use of the




CA No. 3802-3803 of 2020                               Page 18 of 19
      Courts shall be neat and legible, and shall be
      certified to be true copies by the advocate-on-
      record, or by the party in person, as the case may
      be.”                                 (Emphasis added)


20.   It    cannot         be   presumed    that   despite     the
conspicuous difference in the said expressions, under
paragraph 2 (a) ‘certified copy’ alone was permitted to
be appended along with the application under Section
11 of the Act, unintentionally. I am of the considered
view that it was so prescribed, fully understanding the
nature of exercise of power under Section 11 (6) of the
Act and also the presumption of genuineness and
correctness of ‘certified copy’ available by virtue of
Section 79 of the Evidence Act.

      With this addendum, I fully endorse all the
conclusions and findings in the judgment of my learned
brother Justice K. M. Joseph.


                                           ……………………, J.
                                            (C.T. Ravikumar)
New Delhi;
April 25, 2023




CA No. 3802-3803 of 2020                               Page 19 of 19












