









Ravi Kant vs Bandana Kumari on 10 November, 2023



Share Link
Mobile View



Premium Members
Advanced Search
Case Removal








 Cites 20 docs 
      
        - [View All]
      
      
The Family Courts Act, 1984
Section 498 in The Indian Penal Code
Section 19(1) in The Family Courts Act, 1984
Section 7 in The Hindu Marriage Act, 1955
Section 12(1)(c) in The Hindu Marriage Act, 1955

















Warning on Translation





Take notes as you read a judgment using our Virtual Legal Assistant and get email alerts whenever a new judgment matches your query (Query Alert Service). Try out our Premium Member services -- Free for one month.

Patna High Court
Ravi Kant vs Bandana Kumari on 10 November, 2023     IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT PATNA
                   Miscellaneous Appeal No.248 of 2020
======================================================
Ravi Kant Son of Chandra Mauleshwar Prasad Singh Resident of Village
Ravra, P.S. Kashichak, District Nawada.

                                                       ... ... Appellant/s
                                     Versus
Bandana Kumari Daughter of Bipin Singh Resident of Village Chauki, P.O.
Balgudar, P.S. Lakhisarai, District Lakhisarai.

                                          ... ... Respondent/s
======================================================
Appearance :
For the Appellant/s    :      Mr. Jitendra Kishore Verma, Advocate
                              Mr. Anjani Kumar, Advocate
                              Mr. Ravi Roy, Advocate
                              Mr. Shreyash Goyal, Advocate
                              Mr. Abhay Nath, Advocate
                              Ms. Shweta Raj, Advocate
For the Respondent/s   :      Mr. Shashank Shekhar, Advocate
======================================================
    CORAM: HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE P. B. BAJANTHRI
                              and
            HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE ARUN KUMAR JHA
                     CAV JUDGMENT
     (Per: HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE ARUN KUMAR JHA)

 Date : 10-11-2023

              Learned counsel for the parties have been heard on the

 previous date of hearing.

              02. The instant Miscellaneous Appeal has been filed

 by the petitioner/appellant under Section 19(1) of the Family

 Courts Act, 1984 against the judgment 27.01.2020 passed by the

 learned      Principal    Judge,   Family      Court,    Lakhisarai   in

 Matrimonial Case No. 51 of 2013 dismissing the petition of the

 petitioner filed for decree of nullity of marriage under Section

 12(1)(c) of Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 read with Rule 6 of Hindu

 Marriage Rules, 1956.
 Patna High Court MA No.248 of 2020 dt.10-11-2023
                                           2/37
                      03. The case of the petitioner/appellant as it appears

         from the record, is that the petitioner/appellant is a Constable in

         communication coy Section 'A'. On 30.06.2013, the petitioner

         along with his uncle had gone to Ashok Dham Temple in

         Lakhisarai for worship. When the petitioner and his uncle had

         been purchasing materials for worship at about 02:00 pm, three

         persons, namely, Rajesh Kumar, Deepak Kumar and Bipin

         Singh all of Village Chauki, P.O., Balgudar P.S. and District-

         Lakhisarai along with six unknown persons who were armed

         with pistol and knives came and surrounded the petitioner and

         his uncle. These persons brought the respondent near the

         petitioner and threatening him with life at gun point and dagger

         forced him to put vermillion (sindur) to the forehead of the

         respondent. On resistance being shown by the petitioner, he was

         assaulted with slaps and fists. The uncle of the petitioner was

         also surrounded and threatened by the aforesaid persons.

         Finding no way out as being in custody of the above noted

         persons, the petitioner put sindur on the head of the respondent

         but without any religious or spiritual rites and rituals. After

         performance of the so called marriage, the petitioner and

         respondent were kept confined in a dark room in the house of

         the above named Bipin Singh. The uncle of the petitioner was
 Patna High Court MA No.248 of 2020 dt.10-11-2023
                                           3/37




         also threatened and confined to the house of Bipin Singh. After

         sunset, the uncle of the petitioner was set free and he was asked

         to come with his family members along with ornaments and

         clothes for respondent as the marriage has been performed.

         Thereafter, the uncle of the petitioner went to the Lakhisarai

         Police Station and informed the police about the incident at

         about 02:00 pm on 01.07.2013, but the police did not register

         the case. On the same night, the petitioner somehow managed to

         come out of the house of the respondent who is the daughter of

         above named Bipin Singh and went to inform the police about

         the incident but again the police did not take any action.

         Thereafter, the petitioner reached his village. Since the

         petitioner was required to join his duty immediately, he went to

         his service place and after getting leave, he came to file this

         case. Meanwhile, the uncle of the petitioner has also filed a

         criminal case in the Court of learned C.J.M., Lakhisarai vide

         Complaint Case No. 431C/12 under Section 323, 341, 352, 387

         and 365 IPC. Thus the petitioner submitted that the so called

         marriage is in contravention of religious and customary laws

         and is voidable as the petitioner was forced to put sindur on the

         head of the respondent under threat and coercion. The petitioner

         has not performed any religious function out of his free will and
 Patna High Court MA No.248 of 2020 dt.10-11-2023
                                           4/37




         consent and prayed the learned Family Court to annul the so

         called marriage while passing a decree of nullity.

                      04. The respondent appeared and filed her written

         statement. In her written statement, the respondent submitted

         that she is the wife of the petitioner and their marriage has been

         solemnized on 30.06.2013 under Hindu customs and at the time

         of marriage, the father of the respondent gave the petitioner gift

         of gold, Rs. 10,00,000 (Ten Lacs) and other material. The

         respondent went to her matrimonial home and after passage of

         some time, the petitioner demanded a Maruti Car and tortured

         the respondent. The respondent denied all the averments made

         by the petitioner in his petition contending that respective

         allegations are false and fabricated. The respondent further

         submitted that she has filed a complaint case under Section 498

         IPC vide Complaint Case No. 599C of 2015 which was pending

         in the Court of learned S.D.J.M., Lakhisarai.

                      05. On the basis of rival contentions, issues were

         required to be framed. The order sheet of the learned Family

         Court dated 19.02.2016 reveals after failure of conciliation,

         issues were framed, but it appears issues framed are not on

         record. Even the impugned judgment does not disclose the fact

         whether any issues were ever framed and what were those
 Patna High Court MA No.248 of 2020 dt.10-11-2023
                                           5/37




         issues. If the issues were not framed, it was incumbent upon the

         learned Principal Judge Family Court to frame the issues even at

         later stage and then decide the Matrimonial Petition in the light

         of those issues. If the issues were framed, but were not taken

         into consideration by the learned Principal Judge Family Court,

         even in that situation, the findings recorded are in absence of

         any issues to which the evidence was recorded.

                      06. However, it seems, no issues were framed even

         though it has been so mentioned in the order sheet. The fact has

         not been disputed by the learned counsels appearing on behalf

         of the parties.

                      07. Further we have noticed that no decree has been

         prepared in this case as it appears from the learned trial court

         record as well as the submission made before us by the parties.

         Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant submitted

         that Section 19(1) of the Family Courts Act stipulates that

         appeal can be filed against a judgment or an order of the Family

         Court. The learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant

         further submitted that the purpose behind the same as for being

         treated under the heading of Miscellaneous Appeal is to secure

         speedy settlement of justice relating to marriages and family

         affairs. Legislative intend is clear from the expression used in
 Patna High Court MA No.248 of 2020 dt.10-11-2023
                                           6/37
Section 19(1) of the Family Courts Act and the omission of

         word decree is deliberate and intentional. Further the learned

         counsel submitted that this issue is no longer res integra as a

         Full Bench of this Court in the case of Sunita Kumari vs. Prem

         Kumar with Braj Kishore Singh vs. the State of Bihar & Anr.

         reported in 2009(3) PLJR 990 has settled the issue. The learned

         counsel took us to Paragraph-15 of the aforesaid decision in

         support of his contention. Paragraph-15 reads as under:-

                      "15. In view of aforesaid discussions and
                      findings, I hold that appeals under section 19
                      of the Family Courts Act 1984 can not be
                      treated as appeals against a decree having
                      been made in exercise of original civil
                      jurisdiction. The provisions under section 19 of
                      the Act have a wider ambit so as to cover all
                      kinds     of    judgments    and   orders   made
                      appealable by the express provisions of that
                      section and not only decrees as defined under
                      Code of Civil Procedure. These appeals and
                      similar other pending appeals, therefore, have
                      to be treated as Miscellaneous Appeals and not
                      First Appeals."
                      08. In view of the clear enunciation of provision of

         law by the Full Bench of this Court, even in absence of decree, a

         judgment of the Family Court can be challenged in an appeal
 Patna High Court MA No.248 of 2020 dt.10-11-2023
                                           7/37




         before this Court and the said appeal is to be treated as

         Miscellaneous Appeal.

                      09. At the same time, learned counsel appearing on

         behalf of the appellant submitted that non-framing of issues in

         the instant case is not of any material significance since the

         parties were always clear on the point of dispute and they

         adduced        their    evidence          to   that   effect   only.   The

         appellant/petitioner before the Family Court laid his evidence in

         support of his contention, whereas the same was refuted by the

         respondent. Therefore, it cannot be said that absence of issue is

         fatal to the case or that has vitiated the trial resulting in a

         mistrial. Learned counsel for the appellant relied on the decision

         of the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Nedunuri

         Kameswaramma v. Sampati Subba Rao reported in AIR 1963

         SC 884. The learned counsel submitted that the appellant has

         assailed the judgment of the learned Family Court on a number

         of grounds and though the fact of non-framing of issues favours

         the appellant, still the appellant did not press for remanding the

         matter to the learned Family Court for framing of the issues and

         deciding it afresh for the simple reason that this Court can

         proceed in the matter, and if it so wishes, it may formulate its

         points for determination and dispose of the appeal finally in
 Patna High Court MA No.248 of 2020 dt.10-11-2023
                                           8/37




         light of the evidence before it vis a vis the points formulated by

         it. The learned counsel further relied on the decision of the High

         Court of Karnataka in the case of Saroja B.R. v. Addl. Principal

         Judge, Family Court, Banglore and Anr. reported in 1988 SCC

         Online Karnataka 419 wherein, the learned Single Judge held

         that it is not obligatory for the Family Court to frame issues. The

         learned counsel further relied on a decision of this Court,

         (Ranchi Bench) in the case of Bhaskar Ganguly @ Vaskar

         Ganguly & Anr. Vs Sujit Kumar Gupta reported in 1995(2)

         PLJR 563 submitting that issues are framed for coming to a

         right decision for the controversy between the parties with a

         view to pin-point the real and substantial points of difference

         and also on the point that rules of procedure are tools forged to

         achieve justice and not hurdles to obstruct the pathways of

         justice.

                      10. However, the contention of the learned counsel for

         the appellant was resisted by the learned counsel appearing on

         behalf of the respondent who submitted that the learned Family

         Court ought to have framed issues and only then it should have

         decided the matter.

                      11. Since the non-framing of issues is a point of

         importance in the present case, we are inclined to discuss this
 Patna High Court MA No.248 of 2020 dt.10-11-2023
                                           9/37




         point at the outset. The decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court

         cited (supra), it is not a case that no issues at all were framed by

         the learned trial court, but it appears that no issue was framed on

         certain point and another issue which was framed was not

         elaborate. There is no similarity with the facts of the present

         case, since in the case before us, apparently the learned Family

         Court did not frame any issues at all and still it went to decide

         the case, however, the parties adduced their evidence for and

         against the contention raised in their pleadings. So, it can be

         presumed that the parties were knowing about the facts in issue

         and accordingly laid their evidence. Moreover, the Matrimonial

         Suit was filed way back in year 2013 and more than a decade

         has elapsed since then. So, it would be harsh on the parties, if

         they are relegated to the trials and tribulations of the Family

         Court again after passage of so much time. So, we feel that this

         Court could proceed to dispose of this appeal on consideration

         of evidence after formulating the points of determination and as

         envisaged in Section 17 of the Family Courts Act as it provides

         that judgment of the Family Court shall contain a concise

         statement of the case, point of determination, the decision there

         on and the reasons for such decisions.

                      12. The aforesaid discussion takes care of the two
 Patna High Court MA No.248 of 2020 dt.10-11-2023
                                           10/37




         infirmities, namely, non-preparation of decree and non-framing

         of issues before the learned Family Court.

                      13. Based on the pleadings of the parties the following

         points are formulated for determination of the present appeal:-

                      (i) Whether the marriage of the appellant Ravi Kant

         was solemnized with respondent Bandana Kumari without his

         consent and under duress, threat and coercion?

                      (ii) Whether the marriage of the appellant and the

         respondent was solemnized in contravention of religious and

         customary rites and rituals?

                      (iii) Whether the marriage of the appellant and

         respondent is liable to be annulled on the aforesaid grounds?

                      14. Altogether four witnesses have been examined on

         behalf of the appellant/petitioner, whereas three witnesses were

         examined on behalf of the respondent. P.W.1, Chandra

         Mauleshwar          Prasad       Singh       is   the    father      of    the

         appellant/petitioner. P.W.2, Ravi Kant is the appellant/petitioner

         of this case. P.W. 3, Satyendra Kumar Singh is the uncle of the

         petitioner. P.W.4 Sanjay Kumar is the maternal uncle of the

         petitioner. Certain documents have been exhibited on behalf of

         the petitioner/appellant which are as follows:-

                      15.     Ext-I-     A         photo   copy    of      letter   no.
 Patna High Court MA No.248 of 2020 dt.10-11-2023
                                           11/37




         1571489/Ravikant Dated 31.07.13 to District Sainik Board

         Lakhisarai, Ext-II-A photocopy of Letter No. 1571489/Ravikant

         dated      23.07.13,       Ext-III-A      photocopy   of   letter   no.

         15714892A/DSR/Civ dated 25.07.13 to District Commissioner

         Lakhisarai, Ext-IV-A photocopy of application of Ravi Kant on

         11.07.13 to command officer 28 Infantry Division Signal

         Regiment, Ext-V-FIR Lakhisarai P.S. Case No. 20/14 and

         Exhibit-VI-Complaint petition filed the Satyendra Singh vide

         431C/13.

                      16. Now, P.W. 2 and P.W. 3 are the persons who are

         directly involved in this case. In his examination-in-chief P.W.2

         has stated that in June 2013, he was posted at Jammu and

         Kashmir where he was in the job of Army. On 30 June 2013, he

         went to Ashok Dham Temple for worshipping Lord Shiva along

         with his uncle Satyendra Kumar Singh. While purchasing goods

         for worship, they were surrounded by Rajesh Kumar, Deepak

         Kumar, Bipin Singh and others, and on the point of knife and

         pistol, they took control of the petitioner and his uncle and took

         them to some other place where respondent was brought and the

         petitioner was asked to put vermillion (sindur) on her forehead.

         When the petitioner refused, he was assaulted with slaps and

         fists and threatened with life. The P.W. 2 has further stated that
 Patna High Court MA No.248 of 2020 dt.10-11-2023
                                           12/37




         his uncle was kept confined separately on gunpoint. Thereafter,

         without any rites and rituals and against the will of the witness,

         he was forced to put vermillion (sindur) on the forehead of the

         respondent. Thereafter, the witness and respondent were put up

         in a dark room which was locked and on pretext of going to

         toilet, the witness fled away on his motorcycle which was kept

         outside. The witness further stated that he went to the Lakhisarai

         Police Station and gave a written report, but it was not paid any

         heed to by the police as it was in collusion with the father of the

         respondent. Thereafter, the witness came to his house. The

         witness has further deposed that since he had to join his job as

         his leave period is about to end, he went to join his job and

         when further leave was granted to him, he came back and filed

         the present case. The witness further deposed that as no FIR was

         lodged by the police even after receipt of information, the uncle

         of the witness filed a Complaint Case bearing No. 431C/12 at

         Lakhisarai Court against the above named persons. The witness

         has also deposed that after sunset, his uncle was let out saying

         that the marriage between the petitioner and respondent has

         been solemnized and with instruction to his other family

         members to bring clothes and ornaments for the respondent.

         Even the uncle of the petitioner went to lodge the case with the
 Patna High Court MA No.248 of 2020 dt.10-11-2023
                                           13/37




         police station after he was freed from the captivity, but police

         did not register any case. The witness has further deposed that

         putting of vermillion (sindur) forcibly is against the religious

         traditions and practice and is against the law, since the aforesaid

         marriage was solemnized against his will and without his

         consent forcibly and the same was solemnized giving threat of

         life to the witness. Since the marriage was solemnized forcibly,

         no other member from his family was having any knowledge

         about the marriage. The witness has further deposed that the

         respondent never went to his house and none of the family

         members of the petitioner had ever seen the respondent

         anywhere except in the Court. After the so-called marriage, the

         witness never saw the respondent except in the Court. In fact,

         the witness never saw the respondent even prior to the so-called

         marriage and he does not know her or even the village from

         which she belongs to. The witness denied the claim of the

         respondent that she went to her matrimonial home after

         marriage and also denied spending of Rs. 10,00,000/- in

         marriage by her family and further denied that marriage was

         solemnized according to Hindu rites and rituals. The witness has

         also denied the demand of dowry. The witness also denied the

         claim of the respondent that the witness has filed this case for
 Patna High Court MA No.248 of 2020 dt.10-11-2023
                                           14/37




         grabbing 10,00,000/- given as gift to him and the witness

         claimed that it is wrong to say that gold and other things worth

         Rs. 10,00,000/- were given in the marriage.

                      17. Almost similar to the fact is the evidence of the

         P.W. 3 who is also an eye-witness along with the appellant who

         deposed with P.W. 2. P.W.1 and P.W. 4 are not eye-witnesses,

         but they are witnesses to the subsequent events and they

         supported the case of the appellant/petitioner and corroborated

         the evidence of the other witnesses. However, in their evidence,

         both of them deposed that the claim of the respondent that she

         went to her matrimonial home after marriage and Rs.

         10,00,000/- was spent on the marriage. These witnesses have

         denied that P.W.1 demanded dowry and when the same was not

         given, this false case was instituted.

                      18. Now, when P.W. 1 was cross-examined at length

         except for denial of suggestions regarding solemnization of

         marriage, demand of dowry and nothing of significance came

         out. Similar to the fact is the cross-examination of P.W. 1, P.W. 3

         and P.W. 4 and the respondent has not been able to cull out

         anything from cross-examination except putting certain

         suggestions to them in her favour.

                      19. R.W. 1 Bambam Singh is the independent witness,
 Patna High Court MA No.248 of 2020 dt.10-11-2023
                                           15/37




         R.W. 2 Bandana Kumari, is the respondent herself herein and

         R.W. 3 Chotelal Pandit is the independent witness.

                      20. Certain documents have also been filed on behalf

         of the respondent which are as under:-

                      (i) Certified copy of FIR bearing Kashichak PS Case

         No. 52/17, dated-04.07.17.

                      (ii) The certified copy of final form/report of

         Kashichak (Shahpur O.P.) P.S. Case No. 52/17.

                      21. Respondent witness No. 1 Bambam Singh in his

         examination-in-chief deposed that he knows Bandana Kumari

         whose marriage was solemnized on 30.06.2013 with Ravi Kant

         according to Hindu Rites and rituals. The witness further

         deposed that he was present in the marriage. 10 to 15 persons

         from the side of bridegroom were stated to have attended the

         marriage at about 02:00 p.m. The rituals of marriage were

         performed in Ashok Dham temple and saptapadi was perfomed

         at 10-11 pm in the night. One Chotelal Pandit was the pandit

         from the side of the bride. The marriage ceremony ended at

         around 1 am in the night. After marriage, Bandana Kumari went

         to her matrimonial home and stayed there for about 3-4 days.

         Thereafter, Bandana Kumari was sent to her parental home

         accompanied with the uncle of Ravi Kant. They did not take
 Patna High Court MA No.248 of 2020 dt.10-11-2023
                                           16/37




         Bandana Kumari there as the demand of dowry of Rs.

         10,00,000/- from her in-laws was not fulfilled. In his cross-

         examination, the witness deposed that he is agnate of Bandana

         Kumari. The witness further deposed in his cross-examination

         that he was not present from either of the sides at the time of

         marriage. There were 10 to 15 persons from the side of Bandana

         Kumari at Ashok Dham and he recognized only uncle Satyendra

         Kumar from the bridegroom's side. The witness has further

         deposed that there was a female present at the time when the

         vermillion (sindur) was being put, but he could not tell the name

         of that female. The witness also deposed that receipt was taken

         for solemnization of marriage from both sides, but he did not

         see them taking the receipts. The witness denied all the

         suggestions given on behalf of the petitioner's side.

                      22. R.W. 2 Bandana Kumari is the respondent herself.

         In her examination-in-chief, she has deposed that her marriage

         was solemnized on 30.06.2013 with Ravi Kant under Hindu

         rites and rituals and after seven steps round the sacred fire at

         Ashok Dham temple, the marriage was solemnized with the

         consent of Ravi Kant following all religious practices by one

         Chotelal Pandit. In the marriage, apart from her husband Ravi

         Kant, his uncle Satyendra Kumar Singh and 15-20 persons also
 Patna High Court MA No.248 of 2020 dt.10-11-2023
                                           17/37




         attended as members of Baraat. After marriage, she was sent to

         her matrimonial home by her father giving a number of gifts to

         the groom like gold-chain, ring, household articles, clothes and

         the witness was also given 8 bhar of gold ornaments and 20

         bhar of silver ornaments and clothes, etc. Total 10,00,000/- was

         spent on the marriage. The witness went to her matrimonial

         home and spent 2-3 days with her husband, there she came to

         know that her in-laws were unhappy as they did not get the

         sufficient dowry and they started putting pressure on the

         husband of the witness and also on the uncle of the petitioner for

         sending the witness to her parental home. Thereafter, Satyendra

         Kumar Singh took the witness to her parental home under

         pressure from his brothers and mother of Ravi Kant. When the

         witness was not taken back despite repeated request by her

         father and brother, the witness filed a complaint case bearing

         Complaint Case No. 593C of 2015 before the Court of learned

         C.J.M, Lakhisarai for torture related to dowry against the

         petitioner, his parents and other family members.

                      23. In her cross-examination, the witness denied the

         allegation that her marriage was forcibly solemnized and he did

         not go to her matrimonial home. However, she deposed that rites

         and rituals of the marriage were performed at her house, but the
 Patna High Court MA No.248 of 2020 dt.10-11-2023
                                           18/37




         ceremony of putting vermillion (sindur) took place at Ashok

         Dham. The witness did not mention that when she returned from

         her matrimonial home, she stated that it was in the year 2013,

         but she did not remember the exact date and month. The witness

         denied the suggestion that her marriage was forcibly solemnized

         with the petitioner Ravi Kant.

                      24. R.W. 3, Chotelal Pandey is the Pandit who claims

         to have solemnized the marriage. In his examination-in-chief,

         this witness has deposed that he knows Bandana Kumari and her

         brother informed the witness that her marriage was to be

         solemnized with Ravikant, Resident of Village Ravra, P.S.

         Kashichak, District Nawada. The witness further deposed that

         he went to the house of Vipin Kumar in the evening for

         solemnization of marriage. By that time, Baraat ceremony had

         already over. After coming of Baraat, all rituals were performed

         in the house of Bipin Singh. The witness further deposed that

         marriage was solemnized in Ashok Dham temple. At the time of

         marriage, persons from both sides were present in the house as

         well as in Pandaal. The witness further deposed that the

         marriage ceremony lasted till 10-11 pm. Photography was also

         done and he is present in the photos. At the instance of this

         witness Exhibit-A to A5 were exhibited with objection from the
 Patna High Court MA No.248 of 2020 dt.10-11-2023
                                           19/37




         petitioner's side. The witness further deposed that next day of

         the marriage he saw both sides taking leave of each other in a

         cordial atmosphere and vidaai of the girl also took place. The

         witness further deposed that the marriage was solemnized with

         the consent of bride and bridegroom and denied the suggestion

         that marriage was solemnized forcibly. In the cross-examination,

         the witness deposed that he does not know how many rituals are

         performed in the marriage. The witness further deposed that he

         also does not know how many vedas are recited in the marriage.

         The witness further deposed in his cross-examination that he did

         not bring out the photographs from any laboratory and further

         deposed that in marriage no date is prohibited. The witness

         further deposed that he could not tell how many baraatis were

         there and denied the suggestion that he did not solemnize the

         marriage of Ravi Kant and Bandana Kumari and was deposing

         falsely. The witness further denied that the photographs were

         forged and he has wrongly identified it. The witness further

         denied the suggestion that the contention about marriage being

         solemnized at Ashok Dham was not correct as the respondent

         stated about her marriage being solemnized in her house.

                      25. Learned counsel for the appellant submitted that

         the learned lower court failed to appreciate that respondent has
 Patna High Court MA No.248 of 2020 dt.10-11-2023
                                           20/37




         filed the Complaint Case No. 539C of 2015 under Section 498

         IPC making absurd and baseless allegations after three years of

         filing of the present case for annulment of marriage. The learned

         trial court has also not considered the contradictory statements

         of the respondent in her written statement wherein she has stated

         that her marriage was solemnized at her house, whereas in her

         deposition she has stated that her marriage was solemnized in

         Ashok Dham temple. The learned counsel further submitted that

         photograph produced is not admissible in evidence and rather

         they prove that family members of the appellant were not

         present at the time of marriage. The photographer was not

         examined and the photographs were not proved. The learned

         counsel further submitted that the case of respondent was

         completely demolished by the evidence of R.W. 3 who is Pandit

         and who claimed to have performed the marriage. This witness

         was not even knowing about the performance of saptapadi and

         Section 7 of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 provides that no

         marriage is complete unless seven steps around sacred fire

         customs is completed. Since the appellant was forced to put

         sindur on the head of the respondent being threatened with dire

         consequences and he has not performed any religious function

         out of his free will and consent, the case of the appellant is
 Patna High Court MA No.248 of 2020 dt.10-11-2023
                                           21/37




         covered under Section 12(1)(c) of the Hindu Marriage Act.

         Learned counsel further submitted that the approach of the

         learned family court shows bias and wrong averment has been

         made while deciding the case. The discussion of Paragraph 37

         and 38 of cross examination of P.W. 2, the petitioner himself, is

         complete misappreciation of the evidence. From these two

         paragraphs it nowhere comes out that the marriage was

         solemnized with volition of the appellant. The learned court

         below failed to decide the crucial issue that whether the

         marriage was solemnized with the consent of the petitioner and

         whether it was under force and coercion or whether it was a

         marriage duly performed with the free consent of the appellant.

         The learned Family Court also failed to consider the documents

         issued by the army officials in support of the case of the

         appellant and the impugned judgment suffers from non-

         consideration and discarding of relevant exhibits i.e., Exhibit I,

         II, III and IV which clearly prove the case of the

         petitioner/appellant. The learned Family Court further failed to

         consider that no documentary evidence was brought on the

         record nor the photographs were examined nor the receipt of

         Ashok Dham temple was filed. The learned Family Cour also

         did not take into consideration the fact that even the father of the
 Patna High Court MA No.248 of 2020 dt.10-11-2023
                                           22/37




         appellant was not present at the time of marriage. Thus, the

         learned Family Court has perversely and arbitrarily dismissed

         the Matrimonial Case without appreciating the facts and

         circumstances and material available on record.

                      26. Learned counsel further submitted that the real

         question involved in this appeal is as to whether the consent of

         the appellant was free or whether it was obtained by force. The

         oral, documentary and circumstantial evidence have to be

         appreciated in order to reach a definite conclusion as to free

         consent of the appellant and once the circumstances and

         material indicated that consent was not free or the marriage was

         performed against the will of the respondent, the Matrimonial

         Case ought to have been allowed. The learned counsel further

         submitted that learned trial court overlooked certain glaring

         circumstances. Admittedly, the parents of the appellant are alive,

         but both of them were not present while their son was being

         married and as the per the respondent, it was a case of normal

         arranged marriage. The respondent depose that R.W. 2 in her

         evidence in Paragraph No. 3 of examination-in-chief has stated

         that marriage was performed under guardianship of Satyendra

         Kumar Singh, the uncle of the appellant. On the other hand, the

         learned court below has recorded in Paragraph 17 of its
 Patna High Court MA No.248 of 2020 dt.10-11-2023
                                           23/37




         judgment that Satyendra Kumar Singh was not present at the

         time of marriage. Thus, even the guardian under whose

         guardianship the marriage was being allegedly performed was

         absent. It is also obvious that R.W. 3, the priest, namely

         Chotelal Pandit who solemnized the marriage has no knowledge

         of 'saptapadi' and the learned court below went on to observe

         that by not performing the rituals of 'saptapadi' it does not mean

         that the marriage was not performed. This finding is completely

         in teeth of the provisions of Section 7 of the Hindu Marriage Act

         and even the Hon'ble Apex Court in its decision reported in

         2001(7) SCC 487 from Paragraph No. 12-16 has held that a

         tradition in Hindu form of marriage will not be a valid marriage

         in absence of performance of 'saptapadi' and 'datta homa'.

         Further there is no direct evidence that any one of the named

         relatives of the appellant attended the marriage and there is only

         vague allegations of 15 to 20 persons from the appellant's side

         without naming any of the specific relatives. Learned counsel

         further submitted that written statement submitted by the

         respondent denying forcible marriage asserting legal and valid

         marriage is very cryptic, vague and evasive. No specific case

         regarding details of valid performance of marriage has been

         pleaded and as such the same also amounts to evasive denial
 Patna High Court MA No.248 of 2020 dt.10-11-2023
                                           24/37




         and therefore, deemed admission and the learned counsel has

         placed his reliance on the decision of the Hon'ble Apex Court

         reported in 2013(2) SCC 606 Paragraph No. 23 to 25. All the

         circumstances would lead only to the conclusion that marriage

         was not performed under normal circumstances as alleged by

         the respondent. Rather the circumstances indicate that marriage

         was performed under unusual circumstances and the consent of

         the appellant for marriage was not a free consent rather it was

         obtained by force and against his will. Once, the allegation has

         been made that the marriage was not performed according to the

         Hindu rights and rituals and without performance of saptapadi

         and by use of force, onus has shifted to the respondent side to

         prove that the marriage was duly performed under normal

         circumstances by observing all rituals and that the marriage was

         legal and valid, but the respondent failed to prove this aspect

         and thus failed to discharge her onus. The learned counsel

         further submitted that the main reason which weighed the

         learned trial court for dismissing the Matrimonial case is delay

         of about 16 days in lodging the criminal case regarding the

         incident. However, the learned counsel submitted that the

         learned Family Court failed to realize that the appellant and his

         uncle just after the incident tried to lodge the case before the
 Patna High Court MA No.248 of 2020 dt.10-11-2023
                                           25/37




         Lakhisarai Police Station which was not accepted and on this

         point, there is clear cut pleading in the Matrimonial case which

         was not denied specifically and the denial is evasive and thus

         amount to deemed admission under Order 8, Rules 3 to 5 CPC.

         The same thing was deposed by P.W. 2 (In Para 8)and P.W. 3 (In

         Para 6). The learned court below also did not take any decision

         regarding the fact that the appellant's leave was coming to an

         end after 04.07.2013 and as such he had to leave for Jammu and

         Kashmir to join his duty in the Indian Army and there also he

         reported the matter and prayed for legal action by letter dated

         11.07.2013 to his Commandant. Thereafter, from the office of

         the Commandant, a letter was written to the headquarter

         regarding      the    incident      on    23.07.2013.   Thereafter,   the

         Commanding Officer of the appellant wrote a letter to the

         District Commissioner, Lakhisarai on 25.07.2013 requesting

         him to instruct S.H.O., Lakhisarai Police Station to lodge a FIR

         and get the case investigated. Further another letter dated

         31.07.2013 was again sent from the office of the Commandant

         to Jila Sainik Board, District-Lakhisarai to get the case

         investigated. Ultimately, a complaint case was lodged on

         16.06.2013 by the uncle of the appellant bearing Complaint

         Case No. 431C of 2012 under Sections 323, 341, 352, 387 and
 Patna High Court MA No.248 of 2020 dt.10-11-2023
                                           26/37




         365 IPC in the Court of learned C.J.M., Lakhisarai. Thereafter,

         on the said complaint case, FIR was directed to be registered

         under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C. and thereafter, the investigation

         was undertaken. Thus in the circumstances, the delay of 16 days

         in filing of the complaint case clearly stands explained. Thus,

         the learned counsel submitted that the appeal is fit to be

         allowed, annulling the alleged marriage having been performed

         by force and at least without free consent of the appellant.

                      27. The learned counsel appearing on behalf of the

         respondent vehemently countered the submission made on

         behalf of the appellant. The learned counsel further submitted

         that the marriage of the appellant and respondent was

         solemnized on 30.06.2013 in Ashok Dham in accordance with

         Hindu Marriage rites and rituals. Learned counsel further

         submitted that non-performance of saptapadi has no relevance

         and hardly affects the present case in as much as the Hon'ble

         Apex Court in various occasions made it clear that if saptapadi

         is not performed and other ceremonies is performed by either of

         the parties, a valid marriage is said to have been solemnized.

         Though the appellant has been claiming that the marriage has

         been solemnized, however, the same is not corroborated by the

         conduct of his family members. They did not chose to lodge the
 Patna High Court MA No.248 of 2020 dt.10-11-2023
                                           27/37




         matter to the local police or authorities, though, admittedly, the

         uncle of the appellant was released by the respondent and her

         family members in the course of the marriage. Learned counsel

         further submitted that the claim of the appellant that he escaped

         from the house and instead of reporting the matter to the police,

         left his village for the purpose of reporting to his duty seems

         highly unbelievable. The Complaint Case bearing No. 431 of

         2013 was filed by the uncle of the appellant only to create

         evidence. The delay of 16 days in lodging of this case has not

         been explained by any of the witnesses of the petitioner's side.

         Thus, the learned counsel submitted that there is no merit in the

         appeal and the same be dismissed.

                      28. Before considering the cases of rival parties, it

         will be advantageous to reproduce here the relevant provisions.

         The petitioner/appellant has filed the case for annulment of his

         marriage under Section 12(1)(c) of the Hindu Marriage Act,

         1955. Section 12 of the Hindu Marriage Act provides provision

         for Voidable marriages, which read as under:-

                               "12. Voidable marriages.- (1) Any
                         marriage solemnised, whether before or after
                         the commencement of this Act, shall be
                         voidable and may be annulled by a decree of
                         nullity on any of the following grounds,
                         namely:-
                            [(a) that the marriage has not been
 Patna High Court MA No.248 of 2020 dt.10-11-2023
                                           28/37




                            consummated owing to the impotence of
                            the respondent; or]
                            (b) that the marriage is in contravention
                            of the condition specified in clause (ii) of
                            section 5; or
                            (c) that the consent of the petitioner, or
                            where the consent of the guardian in
                            marriage of the petitioner [was required
                            under section 5 as it stood immediately
                            before the commencement of the Child
                            Marriage Restraint (Amendment) Act,
                            1978 (2 of 1978)]*, the consent of such
                            guardian was obtained by force [or by
                            fraud as to the nature of the ceremony or
                            as to any material fact or circumstance
                            concerning the respondent]; or
                            (d) that the respondent was at the time of
                            the marriage pregnant by some person
                            other than the petitioner.
                         (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-
                         section (1), no petition for annulling a
                         marriage-
                            (a) on the ground specified in clause (c)
                            of sub-section (1) shall be entertained
                            if-
                               (i) the petition is presented more than
                               one year after the force had ceased to
                               operate or, as the case may be, the
                               fraud had been discovered; or
                               (ii) the petitioner has, with his or her
                               full consent, lived with the other party
                               to the marriage as husband or wife
                               after the force had ceased to operate
                               or, as the case may be, the fraud had
                               been discovered;
                            (b) on the ground specified in clause (d)
                            of sub-section (1) shall be entertained
                            unless the court is satisfied-
                                (i) that the petitioner was at the time
 Patna High Court MA No.248 of 2020 dt.10-11-2023
                                           29/37




                                 of the marriage ignorant of the facts
                                 alleged;
                                 (ii) that proceedings have been
                                 instituted in the case of a marriage
                                 solemnised            before        the
                                 commencement of this Act within
                                 one year of such commencement and
                                 in the case of marriages solemnised
                                 after such commencement within one
                                 year from the date of the marriage;
                                 and
                                 (iii) that marital intercourse with the
                                 consent of the petitioner has not
                                 taken place since the discovery by
                                 the petitioner of the existence of [the
                                 said ground]."

                      29. The petition has been filed for annulment of

         marriage on the ground of absence of consent of the

         petitioner/appellant, since it is the specific contention of the

         petitioner/appellant that his consent was obtained under force as

         he was threatened at gunpoint.

                      30. Now, coming back to the facts of the case, it is the

         contention of the petitioner that he was abducted along with his

         uncle and was forced to undergo the marriage ceremony under

         threat of life. Though, it has been claimed by the

         petitioner/appellant that he and his uncle approached the police

         station at Lakhisarai for lodging the complaint, the police did

         not register the complaint and, subsequently, on 16.07.2013, the

         uncle of the petitioner lodged the complaint case before the
 Patna High Court MA No.248 of 2020 dt.10-11-2023
                                           30/37




         court of learned Judicial Magistrate. For not immediately

         lodging the complaint against the acts of respondent and his

         family     member,        the    explanation   has   come   from   the

         petitioner/appellant that as he is an Army-man and was on leave,

         period of his leave was coming to an end and he was required to

         join his duties, so he could not stay at his home and went away

         to his work place. This contention is not entirely shorn of merit.

         The petitioner/appellant has brought on record a number of

         documents as Exhibits and these documents are letters and

         communications from the Officer of the petitioner to the

         concerned authorities about taking action on the complaint of

         the petitioner. Even Exhibit-(I) to Exhibit (IV)-A supports the

         contention of the petitioner and the documents are found from

         11th July, 2013 to 31st July, 2013. So, it cannot be said that there

         was undue delay on part of the petitioner in reporting the

         misdeed against him. At the same time, it cannot be said that

         story of the petitioner/appellant about leaving from his work

         place due to lack of leave is not believable. Further, Exhibit-VI

         is complaint petition filed by the uncle of the petitioner vide

         Case No. 431(C) and Exhibit-V is the FIR of Lakhisarai P.S.

         Case No. 20 of 2014, which has been registered on the basis of

         complaint.
 Patna High Court MA No.248 of 2020 dt.10-11-2023
                                           31/37
                      31. On the other hand, the respondent has claimed a

         normal marriage with the petitioner but even from the facts and

         evidence brought on record on behalf of respondent, the

         marriage appears to be anything except normal. If it were a

         normal arrange marriage, naturally there would have been

         participation from both sides. Except for uncle of the petitioner,

         no names of any other blood relation or relatives of the

         petitioner has been brought on record by the respondent, who

         might have attended the marriage. The respondent has claimed

         that 15-20 people attended the marriage from the side of the

         petitioner/appellant but the names of these persons are

         conspicuous by their absence. We find merit in the submission

         of the learned counsel for the appellant/petitioner that other

         close relatives did not attend the marriage even as per version of

         the respondent and the same goes on to show that it was an

         unusual marriage, even if the contention of respondent is taken

         into account.

                      32. Once the petitioner put forward his claim about he

         was being forced into the marriage and marriage not being

         performed according to rites and rituals and, subsequently,

         criminal case has been registered against the respondent and

         others, the onus was on the respondent to rebut the contention of
 Patna High Court MA No.248 of 2020 dt.10-11-2023
                                           32/37




         the petitioner by showing that the marriage was solemnized

         following all rites and rituals and it was a normal marriage.

         However, the evidence discussed herein above is not supportive

         of the case of the respondent. The respondent has utterly failed

         to rebut the contention that the petitioner/appellant was not

         forced into marriage. The respondent's side has prevaricated

         even regarding the place of marriage. At one point of time, it has

         been claimed that the marriage was solemnized at the house of

         the respondent whereas, on the other hand, it has come in the

         evidence of the witnesses that the marriage was solemnized in

         Ashok Dham temple. If the evidence of respondent is to be

         believed, then for solemnization of marriage in a temple, no

         receipts were brought on record, though it was admitted that

         such receipts were being issued. It is also not the case of

         respondent that the receipt was taken and the same got

         misplaced or lost.

                      On the other hand, it has all along being the case of

         the petitioner that he was coerced into the marriage at gunpoint

         and the forcible marriage is reflected from the communication

         made by the Officer of the petitioner with different authorities

         and all the petitioner's witnesses have supported the case of the

         petitioner at this point without any contradiction. Even the
 Patna High Court MA No.248 of 2020 dt.10-11-2023
                                           33/37




         respondent has failed to elicit some response in her favour from

         the witnesses of the petitioner. Except for giving some bland

         suggestions, the respondent has not been able to cull out

         anything in her favour from the mouth of the witnesses of the

         petitioner.

                       33. It is admitted position of both sides that some

         ceremony was performed towards solemnization of marriage of

         the appellant/petitioner and respondent. But, whether it fulfilled

         the requirement of a valid marriage or not, it is to be seen.

                       34. Section 7 of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 reads

         as under:-

                                  "7. Ceremonies for a Hindu
                            marriage.- (1) A Hindu marriage may be
                            solemnized in accordance with the customary
                            rites and ceremonies of either party thereto.
                                  (2) Where such rites and ceremonies
                            include the Saptapadi (that is, the taking of
                            seven steps by the bridegroom and the bride
                            jointly before the sacred fire), the marriage
                            becomes complete and binding when the
                            seventh step is taken."
                       35. From bare perusal of the aforesaid provision, it is

         obvious that when such rites and ceremonies including

         Saptapadi the marriage becomes complete and binding, when

         seventh step is taken. Conversely, if 'saptapadi' has not been

         completed, the marriage would not be considered to be complete
 Patna High Court MA No.248 of 2020 dt.10-11-2023
                                           34/37




         and binding. Now, the respondent has claimed that all rituals

         were performed and 'saptapadi' was complete. It is surprising

         that Pandit who performed the marriage ceremony has no

         knowledge about the essentials of the marriage and his

         deposition is not clear about the place of marriage. The

         photographs of the purported marriage cannot help the case of

         the respondent since it has not bee properly exhibited and could

         not be considered admissible. Moreover, the photographs on

         their on could not reveal anything. It is not the case of the

         petitioner/appellant that no marriage was ever solemnized rather

         it is his contention that he was forced into marriage. Under the

         circumstances, even if the photographs are taken into

         consideration, it cannot be said that the marriage was being

         solemnized without any outer influence. It has all along the

         contention of the petitioner that his marriage was under duress

         and the same was rebuttable contention for which the onus was

         on the respondent, but she failed to discharge this onus. On the

         other hand, the petitioner's case has been supported by

         witnesses       who      remained         unimpeached   during   cross-

         examination.

                      36. The learned Family Court has adopted its own

         reasoning for disbelieving the case of the petitioner, but, in our
 Patna High Court MA No.248 of 2020 dt.10-11-2023
                                           35/37




         opinion, the said view is flawed. The learned Family Court went

         on the premise that the petitioner did not immediately lodge the

         complaint either to the police or to the court and this gap makes

         the case of the petitioner disbelievable. As discussed herein

         before, the petitioner has explained the situation and there is no

         undue delay, even the petitioner took steps post marriage

         through his Officer in the Army Command. So, it cannot be said

         that the petitioner slept over the matter. Similarly, the learned

         Family Court has recorded that at the time of marriage, persons

         from both sides were present. But, where from the Family Court

         come to this conclusion is not forthcoming from the evidence of

         the respondent's side. When the learned Family Court expressed

         his opinion that photographs has not been examined, it was not

         open for the Family Court to rely on the same documents. Then,

         in absence of material to otherwise, the learned Family Court's

         finding that not performing the ritual of 'saptapadi' does not

         mean that marriage was not performed, is devoid of any merit.

         Another aspect which has been taken into consideration by the

         learned Family Court is about respondent staying in her

         matrimonial home for a few days. But, where is the evidence to

         prove this contention? It remains only a statement in absence of

         any supportive evidence. If the respondent has resided in her
 Patna High Court MA No.248 of 2020 dt.10-11-2023
                                           36/37




         matrimonial home after her marriage, there would have been

         corroborative evidence which is clearly lacking in the present

         case. Further, the learned Family Court relied on respondent

         lodging a case under Section 498(A) of IPC. But, dates and

         events makes it amply clear that the case was lodged by the

         respondent on 17.08.2015, i.e., after two years of the marriage.

         It does not appear to a co-incidence that the said case was

         lodged after the Matrimonial Case No. 51 of 2013 came into

         existence. So, the case under Section 498(A) IPC being a

         counterblast to the matrimonial case, cannot be denied.

                      37. We find merit in the contention of the learned

         counsel for the petitioner/appellant. The written statement of

         respondent is silent on a number of points and denials are

         evasive. Further, it has come in the evidence of the petitioner's

         side that the marriage did not commence, as there was no co-

         habitation since the petitioner fled away in the night of his

         marriage. Even this fact has not been denied by the respondent,

         though a plea has been taken that she went to her matrimonial

         home after the marriage, but, as has been observed earlier that

         she failed to produce any corroborative evidence. Reliance

         could be placed on the decision of the Hon'ble Apex Court in

         the case of Gian Chand and Brothers and Anr. Vs. Rattan Lal
              Patna High Court MA No.248 of 2020 dt.10-11-2023
                                                        37/37




                      Alias Rattan Singh, reported in 2013(2) SCC 606 that if there is

                      no specific denial and denial is totally evasive, respondent could

                      not have been permitted to lead any evidence. Similarly, reliance

                      of the learned counsel for the appellant/petitioner on the

                      decision of the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of S.

                      Nagalingam Vs. Sivagami reported in (2001) 7 SCC 487 is

                      quite appropriate that a traditional Hindu form of marriage is not

                      a valid marriage in absence of performance of 'saptapadi' and

                      'datta homa'.

                                   38. In the light of discussions made so far and on the

                      basis of evidence adduced by the parties, we come to the

                      conclusion that the order of the learned Family Court is not

                      sustainable and hence the Judgment dated 27.01.2020 passed in

                      Matrimonial Case No. 51 of 2013 stands set aside. The marriage

                      of the appellant-petitioner with respondent stands annulled.

                                   39. Accordingly, the Misc. Appeal stands allowed.

                                   40. Let decree be drawn accordingly.


                                                          (P. B. Bajanthri, J)


                                                         (Arun Kumar Jha, J)
Ashish/Himanshu/-
AFR/NAFR                AFR
CAV DATE                18.10.2023
Uploading Date
Transmission Date       NA
 











