









Google India Private Limited vs M/S Visaka Industries Limited And ... on 18 November, 2016



Share Link
Mobile View



Premium Members
Advanced Search
Case Removal








 Cites 27 docs 
      
        - [View All]
      
      
Section 79 in The Information Technology Act, 2000
Shreya Singhal vs U.O.I on 24 March, 2015
The Information Technology Act, 2000
Article 141 in The Constitution Of India   1949
Section 2 in The Information Technology Act, 2000
 Citedby 0 docs
      
      
Flipkart Internet Private ... vs State Of Nct Of Delhi & Anr on 25 January, 2022
Flipkart Internet Private ... vs State Of Nct Of Delhi & Anr on 5 September, 2023

















Warning on Translation





Take notes as you read a judgment using our Virtual Legal Assistant and get email alerts whenever a new judgment matches your query (Query Alert Service). Try out our Premium Member services -- Free for one month.

Andhra High Court
Google India Private Limited vs M/S Visaka Industries Limited And ... on 18 November, 2016        

 
THE HONBLE SRI JUSTICE M.SATYANARAYANA MURTHY              

SECOND APPEAL No.505 of 2016      

18-11-2016 

Google India Private Limited..Appellant
                                

M/S Visaka Industries Limited and 2 others.. Respondents  

Counsel for the Appellant : Sri Raghunandan for Sri N.Vijay

Counsel for Respondents: Sri N.V.Anantha Krishna. 

<Gist :

>Head Note: 

? Cases referred:

1.      2015 (5) SCC page 1 
2.      2012 (6) SCC 613 
3.      (2012) NZHC 2352  
4.      [2011] SADC 178  
5.      LAWS (DLH) 2009 11 369   
6.      AIR 2006 MADRAS 312    
7.      AIR 1954 SC 236  
8.      AIR 1959 SC 135  
9.      (1983) 1 SCC 228 
10.     (1983) 3 SCC 522 
11.     (1983) 4 SCC 625 
12.     1984 (Supp.) SCC 263  
13.     (2006) 2 SCC 728 
14.     2006 (6) BomCR 510  
15.     (2008) 5 Supreme Court Cases 117  
16.     (2005) 3 CompLJ 364 Del. 
17.     839 F Supp 1552 (M D Fla 1993)  
18.     907 F.Supp. 1361 (N. D. Cal. 1995)
19.     676 F.3d 19 
20.     534 U.S. 438 (2002)
21.     1999 (4) All ER 342
22.     (2002) HCA 56 
23.     (1893) 6 R 67
24.     513 U.S. 64 (1994)
25.     783 So.2d 1010 (2001) 
26.     131 U.S. 2729 (2011) 


THE HONBLE SRI JUSTICE M.SATYANARAYANA MURTHY              

SECOND APPEAL NO.505 OF 2016        

JUDGMENT:   
        The 2nd defendant-Google India Private Limited in
O.S.No.143 of 2010 filed the present second appeal under
Section 100 of C.P.C, challenging the decree and judgment passed 
in A.S.No.50 of 2014 by the I Additional Chief Judge, City Civil
Court, Secunderabad, reversing the judgment of XVIII Junior Civil
Judge-cum-Additional Rent Controller, Secunderabad in
O.S.No.143 of 2010. 

        The Appellate Court while declaring that message ID
[email protected]        
omURLhttp//groups.gogole.co.in/group/banasbestosindia/msgf3  
0988efldfd0826d?hl-en&dmode=source dated 31.07.2008    
(hereinafter referred to as Message 1) and message ID
[email protected]        
l.comURL:httpgroups.google.co.in/group/banasbestosindia/msg/6  
cde794a4082157?h1=en&dmode=source dated 21.11.2008       
(hereafter referred to as Message 2) posted by the 1st defendant on
the blogsite of the defendants 2 & 3 as defamatory in nature and
directed the defendants 2 & 3 to withdraw Message 1 & Message 2  
posted by the 1st defendant on their blogsite, by mandatory
injunction.

        For convenience of reference, the ranks given to the parties
in O.S.No.143 of 2010 will be adopted throughout the judgment.

        The plaintiff M/s Visaka Industries Limited is a registered
company carrying on business of asbestos cement sheets since  
1981, having 7 manufacturing plants and more than 25 marketing
offices all over India, filed suit claiming declaration that the
Messages 1 & 2 are defamatory and also sought for mandatory  
injunction for removal of the Messages 1 & 2 posted by the 1st
defendant in the blogsite of the defendants 2 & 3.

        The 1st defendant is a coordinator of Ban Asbestos India,
a group which is hosted by 2nd defendant, publishes regular
articles regarding various issues. On 21.11.2008, the 1st defendant
posted an article with a caption Poisoning the system:
Hindustan Times, aimed at the plaintiffs company, as if it is a
single manufacturing company of Asbestos cement products.  
Further, the names of renowned politicians like Sri
G.Venkataswamy and Smt. Sonia Gandhi who have nothing to do    
with the ownership or management of the plaintiff company were
mentioned in the said article. He also published an article dated
31.07.2008 with a caption Visaka Asbestos Industries making
gains. The said article contained defamatory statement against
the plaintiffs company which was available for worldwide
audience.

        The asbestos cement sheets are being manufactured in India 
for more than 70 years and there is no single case where the
health of the people has been effected by usage of Chrysotile
asbestos (white) fibre which is a raw material for manufacturing
asbestos cement sheets. The Government of India has permitted 
manufacturing Asbestos cement sheets with Chrysotile asbestos  
fibre and granted environmental clearance for all manufacturing
units of the plaintiff.

        The acts and misdeeds of the defendants in continuing the
postings of the above said article in the cyber space aimed not only
the company but also its employees. There are other industries like
Everest group, Ramco group who are engaged in the manufacture  
of asbestos cement sheets, but the plaintiff company is singled out
in both the above mentioned articles and those defendants are
trying to bring down the image of the plaintiffs company by
running Hate Campaign against them through the said articles.
Even though thee is no ban on production and usage of asbestos
products in 95% of the world nations including countries like USA
and Canada, the contents of the above said article read that
Visaka Industries Manufacturers asbestos products i.e.,
banned in 50 countries is a defamatory statement. The plaintiff
further contended that the contents of the said article dated
30.03.2008 read that the plaintiff company belongs to Sri G.
Venkataswamys family and in the article dated 21.03.2008 it was
titled as poisoning the system: Hindustan Times.  The article
posted on 31.07.2008 under the caption it has opened asbestos
cement plant in Raebareli, Uttar Pradesh (Parliamentary
constituency of Smt. Sonia Gandi) to signalling patronage the
asbestos industry enjoys the highest political level and
leaders like Mrs. Gandhi and Venkataswamy are least 
concerned about the death toll due to their profit making
with a malafide intention to bring down its image in India and
world wide. Such statements of defendant no.1 posted in blogsite
which are against the plaintiffs company interest caused
annoyance and business sufferance which cannot be compensated    
by granting monetary compensation. 

        The 2nd defendant who is an Internet Service Provider (ISP)
has made it easier than ever before to disseminate defamatory
statement to worldwide audience without taking any care to
prevent it: that the defendants in connivance with each other have
intentionally disseminated the above articles in the cyber space to
bring down the image of the plaintiff company to cause damage to
its reputation and harm its business, which is a cyber crime.

        The plaintiff on noticing the defamatory articles in the
blogsite of defendants 2 & 3 issued a notice dated 09.12.2008,
requesting the defendants 1 & 2 to delete the articles posted by 1st
defendant, while claiming compensation of Rs.20-00 crores
towards damage caused to the plaintiffs company reputation, but
the defendants did not respond. Therefore, criminal prosecution
was launched against defendants 1 & 2 which is registered as
C.C.No.679/09 on the file of XI Additional Chief Metropolitan
Magistrate at Secunderabad. The defendants 2 & 3 filed a Criminal
Petition No.7207 of 2009 before this Court to quash the criminal
case against them. 

        The plaintiffs company sent entire information on
13.10.2009 to the 3rd defendant and also addressed a letter dated
21.11.2009 and on receipt of the same, a reply notice dated
16.12.2009 from defendants 2 & 3 was issued, informing to obtain
a direction to remove the above referred defamatory content,
through their website. Since the Messages 1 & 2 in the blogsite of
defendants 2 & 3 are defamatory, the plaintiff sought for the
aforesaid reliefs against the defendants 1 to 3.

        The 1st defendant remained exparte and the 2nd defendant 
filed written statement refuting the contentions raised in the plaint
by the plaintiff while contending that the 2nd defendant is a
subsidiary of 3rd defendant i.e. Google Inc., which is a company
incorporated under the laws of United States of America. It is
further contended that the 2nd defendant is incorporated under the
provisions of Companys Act and that the services on Google
groups available on Google groups website are not controlled by 2nd
defendant and that the reliefs claimed by the plaintiffs company
against the 2nd defendant are misdirected and not maintainable.

        The 2nd defendant contended that the Google groups website 
is a platform enabling users to post their content online which was
developed outside India and that no employee or defendant no.2
has access or ability to remove or delete the content when once it
is posted on the Google Groups website. The criminal complaint
filed against the 2nd defendant is unjustified as it has any
connection or no control over the Google Groups website. It is
further contended that the 2nd defendant does not act as a
representative or agent of the 3rd defendant, particularly, for the
services on Google Groups website. It is also submitted that the
Criminal complaint against 2nd defendant is unjust as it has no
connection or control over the Google Groups website. The 2nd
defendant is not acting as a representative or agent to 3rd
defendant for the services of Google Group website. The 2nd
defendant further contended that the above article in question
does not amount to defamatory statement. 

        The 3rd defendant who is a service provider did not perform
the functions of publishing the alleged content and upholding any
articles. Such article is completely written, selected, edited by the
concerned author and therefore in the control of author and the
service is nothing but an online bulletin board where users upload
articles and views subject to certain guidelines which clearly
advises users not to upload defamatory content.

        The 2nd defendant is contended that under Section 79 of
Information Technology Act, 2002, an intermediary service provider
is not liable for content uploaded by third parties. The allegation
that the 2nd defendant did not take due care and diligence to
prevent uploading of allegedly defamatory content is incorrect and
the 2nd defendant does not act as a moderator for any of the groups
including the specific group in question and it has no legal
obligation to scrutinize, edit or monitor the material as authored
by a user of the service prior to it being uploaded on the website.
Therefore, the 2nd respondent being an intermediary has no
liability and not responsible for posting of such statements in the
site and prayed for dismissal of the suit.

        The 3rd defendant filed separate written statement
contending that they provided the service for sharing information
and knowledge without exercise of any editorial control or
monitoring by 3rd defendant. Considering the letter of the plaintiff,
it was  informed through their letter dated 16.12.2009 their policy
for removal of allegedly defamatory content from the Google
Groups website through an order from Court of competent
jurisdiction identifying certain content to be prima facie defamatory
and that the persons who have uploaded blogs and content in the
Google groups website or the service provider at no point of time
assume responsibility of such content.

        As per Section 79 of Information Technology Act, 2000, as
amended, an intermediary service provider is not liable for content
uploaded by third parties. In the present case, the plaintiff at best
is entitled to claim relief against the 1st defendant, who is the
author of the alleged defamatory article. The 3rd defendant, as a
service provider has no connection with the disputes of 1st
defendant and plaintiff and it does not have any malafide
intention. The 3rd defendant denied the other allegations against it
and specifically contended that the 3rd defendant did not indulge in
any cyber defamation and prayed for dismissal of the suit.

        Basing on the above pleadings, the followings six issues were
framed by the Trial Court.
(1)     Whether this Court has got jurisdiction to try the
present suit filed by the plaintiff?
(2)     Whether the suit filed by the plaintiff discloses any
cause of action against defendants 2 and 3?
(3)     Whether an intermediary service provider is liable
for contents uploaded on the website by the 3rd
parties?
(4)     Whether the messages dated 31.7.08 and 21.11.08,  
alleged to have been published by the Ist defendant
and hosted by 2nd and 3rd defendants are defamatory 
in nature?
(5)     Whether the plaintiff is entitled for mandatory
injunction against the defendants?
(6)     To what relief?

        During Trial, on behalf of the plaintiffs P.Ws 1 to 3 were
examined and marked Exs.A-1 to A-22.  On behalf of the 
defendants D.Ws.1 & 2 were examined and marked Exs.B-1 to B-4,   
besides Exs.C-1 & C-2. 
        Upon hearing argument of both the counsel and considering
oral and documentary evidence on record, the Trial Court
dismissed the suit holding all the issues against the plaintiff and in
favour of the defendants.
        Aggrieved by the decree and judgement passed by the Trial
Court, the plaintiff filed an appeal in A.S.No.50 of 2014 on the file
of the I Additional Chief Judge, City Civil Court, Secunderabad.
Upon hearing argument of both the counsel, the First Appellate
Court while concurring with the finding recorded by trial Court on
Issue No.3 in paragraphs 21(b) & 23, held the 2nd defendant
(appellant) liable to remove the alleged cyber defamatory
statements, granting relief against both, while holding that the
intermediary (appellant) not liable for posting such defamatory
statements. 
        Assailing the decree passed by the first Appellate Court
against the defendants 2 & 3, the 2nd defendant alone filed the
appeal raising several contentions, mainly contending that the
findings of the First Appellate Court in paragraph 23 of the
judgment is contrary to the finding in paragraph 21(b) and that
when the 2nd defendant-appellant herein being an intermediary is
not liable for any such postings and upholded the findings
recorded by the Trial Court on Issue No.3 that it ought not to have
granted relief against 2nd defendant-appellant. Therefore, the
judgment of the First Appellate Court is erroneous.
        It is further contended that the First Appellate Court did not
assign any reason to come to a conclusion that how the postings in
the blogsite of 3rd defendant are defamatory and issuing a direction
for removal of the content in the postings against the 3rd defendant
along with 2nd defendant is nothing but fastening liability
on 2nd defendant and it is contrary to the findings recorded in
paragraph 21(b).  Therefore, the judgment of the First Appellate
Court is erroneous and self contradictory.
        During hearing, the learned Senior Counsel Sri
Raghunandan appearing on behalf of Sri N. Vijay, Advocate on
Record, drawn attention of this Court to various paragraphs in the
judgment of First Appellate Court, more particularly 7(b), 21(b) &
23 which are self contradictory. That apart, the original Court
refused to rely on the judgments of Foreign Courts on the ground
that they are not binding on Courts in India, but the First
Appellate Court, based on Shreya Singhal v. Union of India 
concluded that the foreign judgments can be considered and the
Supreme Court has responded positively (vide paragraph 22 of the
judgment).
        In the absence of any judgment from our Indian Courts, the
judgements of foreign Courts are having highest persuasive value
though not binding precedent, as those judgments are not the law
declared by the Apex Court under Article 142 of Constitution of
India. Therefore, the Trial Court and the Appellate Court would
have accepted the highest persuasive value of the judgments of
foreign Courts, but ignored totally. It is also drawn attention of this
Court to Section 79 (3) of Information Technology Act, 2000, which
is amended by Act.10/2009 with effect from 27.10.2009 to claim
immunity from liability, since 2nd defendant is only an
intermediary having no control over the contents of the postings
and the definition of the term intermediary under The Information
Technology Act, 2000, and placed reliance on the judgments in
Vodafone International Holdings B.V. v. Union of India and
another , ISI SRA v Google Italy Srl, Google Infrastructure
Srl, Yahoo! Italia Srl. - Court of Milan  translated version,
A v Google New Zealand Ltd ., Duffy v Google Inc. & anr ,
Crop Care Federation of India v. Rajasthan Patrika (Pvt.) Ltd.
And Ors.  and R.Rajagopal @ R.R. Gopal @ Nakkheeran   
Gopal and another v. J.Jayalalitha and another , on the
strength of those judgments and principles laid down in those
judgments, learned counsel for the appellant (D-3) would contend
that 2nd defendant being an intermediary has no liability, since it
has no control over the postings in the blogsite and the 2nd
defendant proved exercise of due diligence.
        Per contra, Sri N.V. Anantha Krishna, learned counsel for
the plaintiff supported the judgment of the First Appellate Court in
all respects, while contending that the 2nd defendant is only an
agent of 3rd defendant in India and therefore, all the defendants are
liable for the reliefs claimed in the suit and contents of those
statements on the blogsite of the 3rd defendant is totally
defamatory in nature and issuing direction declaring that the
contents of Messages 1 & 2 referred above are defamatory in
nature which effects the business of the plaintiff company
worldwide and adversely affects its business and its employees. In
such circumstances, the findings of the Trial Court that contents
of those Messages 1 & 2 referred supra as defamatory cannot be 
interfered with in the present second appeal, as its jurisdiction is
confined to substantial question of law under Section 100 of C.P.C.
        Learned counsel further contended that, though relief of
mandatory injunction under Section 39 of Specific Relief Act is the
harshest remedy, issuing such direction to the defendants
including defendants 2 & 3 for removal of Messages 1 & 2 on the
blogsite on the defendants 2 & 3 by 1st defendant is justifiable for
the reason that the contents of those postings 1 & 2 would
adversely effect the business of the plaintiff and it would create
fear complexion in the minds of general public in the commercial
world and issuing such direction by way of mandatory injunction
is justifiable in those circumstances and prayed for dismissal of
the appeal, confirming the decree and judgment passed by the
First Appellate Court.
        Considering the contentions of both the counsel and findings
recorded by the First Appellate Court, the substantial questions of
law that arise for determination by this Court are as follows:
(1)     Whether the judgment of the first appellate court is
in consonance with Order XLI Rule 31 of C.P.C.?
(2)     Whether the 2nd defendant is an intermediary within the
definition of intermediary under Guideline No.2(i) read
with subsection (1) of Section 2 of Information
Technology Act, 2000 (and Information Technology 
Rules, 2011). If so, whether the 2nd defendant (appellant)
is having any control over the postings by Google Groups.
If so, liable for the acts of the Google Groups for
removing the contents of Messages 1 & 2. 
SUBSTANTIAL QUESTION NO.1:       
        The first and foremost contention raised by the counsel for
the appellant  defendant No.2 is that the findings of the appellate
Court are self contradictory and those findings cannot be
sustained in view of mandatory procedure prescribed under Order
XLI Rule 31 of C.P.C. He has drawn the attention of this Court to
certain findings recorded by the first appellate Court and the trial
Court.
        The trial Court framed as many as 6 issues and one of the
issues framed by the trial Court is with regard to liability of
intermediaries i.e. issue No.3, which is extracted hereunder:
        Whether an intermediary service provider is
liable for contents uploaded on the website by the
3rd parties?
        This issue was answered in negative, recording a specific
finding in paragraph No.54 by the trial Court and held the issue
against the plaintiff before the trial Court.
        Aggrieved by the finding on issue No.3 and other issues, an
appeal was preferred before the Additional Chief Judge, City Civil
Court, Secunderabad. The first appellate Court framed a point for
determination in most casual manner without adhering to the
mandatory procedure prescribed under Order XLI Rule 31 of
C.P.C. and grounds urged before the Court. The point for
consideration framed by the first appellate Court is as follows:
        Whether the appellant has established substantial
ground to set aside the judgment and decree of the trial
Court and to decree the suit as prayed for or not?
        While deciding the point for determination in paragraph
No.21 (b), the first appellate Court recorded a specific finding with
regard to liability of intermediary i.e. the appellant herein and it is
extracted hereunder for better appreciation.
        In the light of the above observations, the finding on
issue No.3 is not liable to be set aside to the effect that
defendant No.3 being an intermediary service provider is not
liable for the contents posts on the website by third parties
i.e. defendant No.1
        The first appellate Court in the said paragraph
instead of holding that the defendant No.2 is an
intermediary held that the defendant No.3 is an
intermediary, which appears to be a typographical
mistake since the defendant No.3 is an internet service
provider.
        In paragraph No.23, while allowing the appeal held as
follows:        
        The suit is liable to be decreed as the messages
referred above would amount to defamatory in nature and
defendant Nos.2 and 3 were directed to withdraw the
messages posted by the 1st defendant on their blogs by way 
of mandatory injunction.
        When the Court found that the appellant/defendant No.2 is
not liable for the contents posted in the website of the defendant
No.3, which is having total control over the postings in their blog
and the appellant  defendant No.2 is only an intermediary, who is
making arrangements for advertisements etc. from India.
Therefore, the first appellate Court having affirmed the findings
recorded by the trial Court on issue No.3 and recorded a finding in
paragraph No.21 (b) holding that the defendant No.2/appellant is
not liable for the contents uploaded by the third parties, ought not
to have issued a direction by way of mandatory injunction to
withdraw the defamatory statements made by defendant No.1 in 
the website of the defendant No.3.
        The trial Court and the first appellate Court having adverted
to Section 79 (3) (b) of the Information Technology Act, 2000 did
not consider the requirement under Section 79 (3) (b) failed to
record a specific finding as to whether the defendant No.2
exercised due diligence as amended by Act 10 of 2009 with effect
from 27.10.2009.
        Strangely, the plaintiff did not file any appeal against the
decree and judgment of the first appellate Court challenging the
specific finding recorded on issue No.3 by the trial Court and
affirmed by the first appellate Court in paragraph No.21 (b) of the
judgment and the plaintiff not filed any cross objections and not
advanced any argument on the said issue during hearing of the
appeal. Therefore, the findings on issue No.3 recorded by the trial
Court and affirmed by the first appellate Court in paragraph No.21
(b) of the judgment cannot be disturbed by this Court in the
absence of any appeal or cross objections filed by the plaintiff while
considering the second appeal under Section 100 of C.P.C. Hence, 
recording a finding regarding exercise of due diligence or actual
knowledge both by the trial Court and first appellate Court while
deciding the issue No.3 by the trial Court and affirmed by the first
appellate Court in paragraph No.21 (b) is insignificant.
        The first appellate Court is required to frame appropriate
points determination and required to answer each and every point
independently as mandated by the Order XLI Rule 31 of C.P.C. On 
the contrary the first appellate Court framed a point for
determination in a most nonchalant manner without adverting to
any of the contentions raised in the grounds of appeal before it and
points raised during hearing strictly adhering to Order XLI Rule (1)
of C.P.C. but on this ground the judgment of trial Court and
finding recorded by the first appellate Court regarding liability of
intermediary in paragraph No.21 (b) cannot be disturbed since it
was not challenged by the plaintiff before this Court either by filing
cross objections or by separate appeal or at least during hearing
before this Court. Therefore, finding recorded by the first appellate
Court in paragraph No.21 (b) and direction issued in paragraph
No.23 are self contradictory and the first appellate Court is not
expected to issue such direction against the defendant
No.2/appellant having found that the defendant No.2 is not liable
for the contents posted or uploaded in the website of the defendant
No.3. Therefore, the direction of the first appellate Court in
paragraph No.23 directing the defendant No.2 along with
defendant No.3 to withdraw the messages posted by  
the 1st defendant on their blogs is liable to be set aside. Therefore,
mandatory injunction issued by the first appellate Court against
the defendant Nos.2 directing to withdraw the defamatory
statements posted by the 1st defendant is erroneous and liable to
be set aside. Accordingly set aside by answering the substantial
question of law in favour of the appellant/defendant No.2 and
against the plaintiff/respondent.
SUBSTANTIAL QUESTION NO.2:       
        One of the contentions raised before the trial Court and the
first appellate Court is that the defendant No.2/appellant is only
an intermediary, whose liability is subject to proof of due diligence
or actual knowledge by the defendant No.2 as contemplated under 
Section 79 (3) of the Information Technology Act, 2000 while
drawing the attention of trial Court and the first appellate Court to
various judgments of foreign courts with regard to similar issue.
The trial Court while observing that the judgments of the foreign
courts are not binding precedents and they need not be followed,
thereby failed to place reliance on the judgments of foreign courts
as observed in paragraph No.54  of the judgment of the trial Court.
Whereas the first appellate Court while adverting to various
judgments of foreign courts relied on by the counsel for the
defendant No.2/appellant herein before it; in paragraph No.22
observed that regarding applicability of foreign law was considered
in Shreya Singhal v. Union of India, (referred supra) but did
not record any finding based on the principles laid down by
various foreign courts.
        Sri Raghunandan, learned Senior Counsel for the defendant
No.2/appellant again placed reliance on the same judgments,
which he relied before the first appellate Court and trial Court,
whereas Sri N.V.Anantha Krishna, learned counsel for the
plaintiff/1st respondent before this Court while accepting the
observations made in paragraph No.22 contended that it is not the
law laid down by the Apex Court to fall within the ambit of Article
141 Constitution of India and thereby they are not binding
precedents.
        According to Article 141 of the Constitution of India, the law
declared by the Supreme Court of India is binding on all the courts
in India since the Supreme Court is the highest Court of record in
the country and final Court of appeal. Thus, by virtue of Article
141 of Constitution of India what the Supreme Court lays down is
the law of the land and its decisions are binding precedents on all
the Courts till they are overruled by larger bench. Therefore, Article
141 of Constitution of India does not include the law declared by
the Foreign Courts and thereby there is any amount of justification
in the observations made by the trial Court in paragraph No.54 of
the Judgment, but the first appellate Court basing on the
judgment of the Apex Court rendered in Shreya Singhal v.
Union of India (referred supra) concluded that the Apex Court
responded positively but did not decide the applicability of the
foreign judgments to the Courts in India.
 In Chatturbhuj Vithaldas Jasani v. Moreshwar
Parshram  the Apex Court held that the authority of English
Cases and their dicta do not bind the Supreme Court.
        The Court can resort to the position in law as it obtained in
England or in other countries if there is any patent or latent
ambiguity and the courts are required to find out what was the
true intendment of the legislature as held in STO v. Kanhaiya
Lal Makund Lal Saraf 
        The Supreme Court held that the Indian Courts have to
build their own jurisprudence and cannot surrender Judgment
and accept as valid in India whatever has been decided in England
and that the foreign decisions are not helpful in interpreting post-
independence enactments in National Textile Workers Union v.
P.R.Ramakrishnan  and Aruna Basu Mullick v. Dorothea 
Mitra .
        The Apex Court also observed that there is a large body of
company jurisprudence which is common to all the 
Commonwealth countries. Hence, a foreign decision is either
worthy of acceptance or not depending upon the reasons contained 
in it and not on its origin or age. Unless a well reasoned foreign
decision, is opposed to our ethics or otherwise unsuited to Indian
conditions, should be followed. Where provisions are in pari
materia between the English Act and the Indian Act and the
conditions in both the countries do not materially differ. Indian
Courts can profitably take the help of the decisions of the foreign
courts. But Indian Courts cannot bodily import English decisions
in our system to develop a hybrid legal system as held in Cotton
Corpn. India Ltd. v. United Industrial Bank Ltd. 
        In Forasol v. ONGC  the Apex Court observed that the
English decisions are of high persuasive value and our Courts
should be cautious enough whether the rule laid down can be
applied by them in the context of our laws and legal procedure and
the practical realities of litigation in our country. Where law is laid
down by Supreme Court and reiterated in numerous subsequent  
judgments, a wider proposition of law laid down in foreign
judgment is not acceptable in view of the judgment rendered in
BSES Ltd. v. Fenner India Ltd. 
        Thus, the judgments of foreign courts though not fall within
the ambit of Article 141 of Constitution of India, the Courts in
India can draw the principle laid down in those judgments subject
to similarity in the provisions of the Act i.e. if the provisions of a
particular enactment in India and Foreign Countries are in Pari
materia, however no precedent value can be attached to such
judgments though they have higher persuasive value. In Shreya
Singhal v. Union of India, (referred supra) the Apex Court drawn
the principles to decide the issue relating to similar case with
reference to Section 79 (3) of the Act mostly relied on the
judgments of Foreign Courts, but the Supreme Court did not
conclude that those judgments are binding on the courts in India.
Therefore, the trial Court rightly observed that the law declared by
the Foreign Courts is not binding precedent on the Indian Courts
within Article 141 of Constitution of India since the law declared by
the Apex Court is binding on all the Courts in India. Therefore, the
judgment of Apex Court in Shreya Singhal v. Union of India,
(referred supra) is a binding precedent on all the Courts in India
including this Court being the Highest Court as a Court of record.
Thus, this Court is bound to follow the law declared by the Apex
Court in Shreya Singhal v. Union of India, (referred supra) and
other judgments of Apex Court.
        The main contention of the appellant/defendant No.2 before
this Court is that the appellant/defendant No.2 has no control over
the postings and he is only an intermediary engaged for the
purpose of advertisements etc. and drawn the attention of this
Court to Google Groups Content Policy, which is marked as 
Ex.B.4, clause 3 of Ex.B.4 reads as under:
        3. Hate Speech: If we learn of hate speech content, we
may  remove the reported content. By this, we mean, content that
promotes hate or violence towards groups based on race,
ethnicity, religion, disability, gender, age, veteran status, or
sexual orientation/gender identity. For example, this would
include content saying that members of a particular race are
criminals or advocating violence against followers of a particular
religion.
        Google Groups: Terms of Service, marked as Ex.B.3. 
Clause 5 of Ex.B.3 deals with responsibility of the person, who
posted the content and it reads as follows:
        5. Content:
        Your Responsibilities. You understand that all data, text,
information, links and other content (collectively, Content),
whether posted in public or restricted groups, is the sole
responsibility of the person from which such Content originated.
This means that you, and not Google, are entirely responsible for
all Content that you publish, post, upload, distribute,
disseminate or otherwise transmit (collectively, Post) via the
Service. You understand that by using the Service, you may be
exposed to Content that is offensive, indecent or objectionable.
Under no circumstances will Google be liable in any way for any
Content, including, but not limited to, for any errors or omissions
in any Content, or for any loss or damage of any kind incurred as
a result of the use of any Content Posted via the Service. You
agree that you must evaluate, and bear all risks associated with,
the use of any Content, including any reliance on the accuracy,
completeness, or usefulness of such Content. You understand 
that the technical processing and transmission of the Service,
including Content, may involve (a) transmissions over various
networks; and (b) changes to conform and adapt to technical
requirements of connecting networks or devices.
        Group Owners Rights and Responsibilities. Group Owners 
have additional capabilities and responsibilities in regard to the
members and Content of a Group. The Owner of a Group decides   
whether a Group is restricted to certain members or accessible to
the public generally, and the Owner may change the access to the
Group at any time. In restricted Groups, the Owner decides who
may be a member of the Group and can access and change the    
membership list in his or her sole discretion. A Group Owner
may, at any time, transfer his or her ownership of a group to
another Google Groups user. In regard to Content, a Group
Owner shall be responsible for the maintenance and monitoring
of the Content in the Group, including deleting any Group,
Content or archived Content at any time and in his or her
discretion.
        Group Owners Must Mark Sexually Explicit Content. If you
create a Group containing sexually explicit Content that is not
suitable for minors, you agree to mark the Group as such. If your
Group contains Content that is sexually explicit and you do not
mark the Group appropriately, Google shall have the right to
delete your Group, including all messages Posted to that Group.
        Googles Rights. You acknowledge that Google does not  
pre-screen, control, edit or endorse Content made available
through the Service and has no obligation to monitor the Content
Posted via the Service. If Google discovers Content that does not
appear to conform to the Terms of Service, Google may investigate
and determine in good faith and in its sole discretion whether to
remove the Content. Google will have no liability or responsibility
for performance or non-performance of such activities. You
acknowledge that certain Groups available through the Service
are available only through the Service and others are available
both through the Service and other sources, such as Usenet, over
which Google has absolutely no control.
        Content Removal and Archiving. If you are not the Owner
of a Group, you may request removal of a message that you have 
Posted yourself or (2) prevent archival of your message (For more
information about preventing archival, please see our FAQ). You
agree to resolve directly and exclusively with third parties any
disputes you may have about messages that they posted or you  
may contact the Group Owner to request a removal. In this
regard, you understand that Google does not monitor or control
the content of information Posted by others, and instead simply
provides a service by allowing users to access information that
has been made available.
        According to clause 6 of Ex.B.3 the person, who posted such
material in the blogsite alone is responsible for such violation.
Defendant No.3 fixed responsibility on the person who posted
those items, disowning its responsibility to any such postings.
        Defendant No.3 is a foreign company and governed by the 
laws of the said Country where it is incorporated and registered as
a company. Even according to Clause 5 of Ex.B.3  Google Groups  
 Terms of Service referred supra, the company is not responsible
for any such postings and unless a person, who is claiming that
the contents of such statement are defamatory and approached the 
Court, obtained order of injunction for removal of such content,
defendant No.3  company has no obligation to remove such 
content that it is defamatory and cause damages substantially to
the reputation of an person. In such a case, it is difficult for
everyone to approach the Court to get order immediately and by
the time they got order from the Court his/her reputation will be
denounced in the public, which would cause incalculable loss and
damage to the reputation. In such case, necessary steps have to be
taken to make the service providers responsible when they are
operating in our country. But the law does not permit to attach
any such responsibility for posting of such defamatory statement
in view of the law declared by this Court.
 Shreya Singhal v. Union of India (referred supra) the
Apex Court adverting to Section 79 (3) (b) as amended by the Act
concluded that in paragraph No.122 observed as follows:
 Section 79(3)(b) has to be read down to mean that the
intermediary upon receiving actual knowledge that a court order
has been passed asking it to expeditiously remove or disable
access to certain material must then fail to expeditiously remove
or disable access to that material. This is for the reason that
otherwise it would be very difficult for intermediaries like Google,
Facebook etc. to act when millions of requests are made and the
intermediary is then to judge as to which of such requests are
legitimate and which are not. We have been informed that in
other countries worldwide this view has gained acceptance,
Argentina being in the forefront. Also, the Court order and/or the
notification by the appropriate Government or its agency must
strictly conform to the subject matters laid down in Article 19(2).
Unlawful acts beyond what is laid down in Article 19(2) obviously
cannot form any part of Section 79. With these two caveats, we
refrain from striking down Section 79(3)(b).
        In view observations recorded by the Apex Court in Shreya
Singhal v. Union of India (referred supra) it is difficult to any
intermediary to keep watch on millions of postings and requests by
the users of internet, but when it is brought to the notice of the
intermediary, the intermediary is under obligation to remove such
objectionable content, here the case of the appellant/defendant
No.2 is that the appellant/defendant No.2 has no control over the
website and only the defendant No.3 is competent to remove such 
objectionable content posted in the website of the defendant No.3,
but that cannot be accepted in view of the observations and law
declared in paragraph No.122 of the judgment of the Apex Court in
Shreya Singhal v. Union of India (referred supra).
        Before going further to decide whether the
appellant/defendant No.2 is intermediary or not, it is appropriate
to advert to the definition of the intermediary. The word
intermediary is defined in the Information Technology
(Intermediaries Guidelines) Rules, 2011. Rule 2 (i) defined
intermediary as intermediary as defined in clause (w) of sub-
section (1) of Section 2 of the Act.
        Clause (w) of sub-section (1) of Section 2 of the Act defined
the word intermediary as follows:
        "Intermediary" with respect to any particular
electronic records, means any person who on behalf of
another person receives, stores or transmits that record or
provides any service with respect to that record and
includes telecom service providers, network service
providers, internet service providers, web- hosting service
providers, search engines, online payment sites, online-
auction sites, online- market places and cyber cafes.
        The appellant/defendant No.2 would come within the
definition of intermediary being a web-hosting service provider
though the overall control was only with the defendant No.3.
        Intermediary cannot be equated with an agent under the
Indian Contract Act since there is specific definition in the
Information Technology Act for the word intermediary.
Intermediaries are third party organizations that offer
intermediation services between the parties trading amongst
themselves. Such organizations act as ducts for services offered by
a supplier to the relevant consumer. Value addition to the service
in question is a key aspect of the trading platform offered by such
intermediaries, which is highly improbable if the trading is done
directly. Provision of a trading platform for any kind of electronic
commerce is the key link of the existence of an intermediary. Even
to such intermediary service, certain safeguards have to be
provided by the main service provider.
        As per Ex.B.4, the person, who accessing or posting any
information in the website are bound by the general terms and
conditions of the Google Groups Content Policy. In such case,
intermediary is not liable for such postings in the web blog by the
general public since the intermediary is only offers intermediary
service between the parties subject to proof of requirement under
Section 79 of the Information Technology Act.           
        The liability of intermediary came up for consideration in
various judgments including the judgment in Bazee.com case in
India for the first time before the Delhi High Court. Under the
Information Technology Act, 2000, no categorization of
OSP/ISP/NSP has been attempted despite the view that liability
has been imposed having regard to the functions performed by the
service provider in order to give a meaningful disposition to
infringement cases.
        To decide the liability of intermediary in India, Section 79 of
Information Technology Act is relevant, which reads as follows:
        79. Exemption from liability of intermediary in certain
cases.--(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the
time being in force but subject to the provisions of Sub-sections
(2) and (3), an intermediary shall not be liable for any third party
information, data, or communication link made available or
hosted by him.
(2) The provisions of Sub-section (1) shall apply if--
(a) the function of the intermediary is limited to providing access
to a communication system over which information made  
available by third parties is transmitted or temporarily stored or
hosted; or
(b) the intermediary does not--
(i) initiate the transmission,
(ii) select the receiver of the transmission, and
(iii) select or modify the information contained in the
transmission;
(c) the intermediary observes due diligence while discharging his
duties under this Act and also observes such other guidelines as
the Central Government may prescribe in this behalf.
(3) The provisions of Sub-section (1) shall not apply if--
(a) the intermediary has conspired or abetted or aided or induced,
whether by threats or promise or otherwise in the commission of
the unlawful act;
(b) upon receiving actual knowledge, or on being notified by the
appropriate Government or its agency that any information, data
or communication link residing in or connected to a computer
resource controlled by the intermediary is being used to commit
the unlawful act, the intermediary fails to expeditiously remove or
disable access to that material on that resource without vitiating
the evidence in any manner.
        Explanation.--For the purposes of this section, the
expression "third party information" means any information dealt
with by an intermediary in his capacity as an intermediary.
        A bare look at Section 79 after introduction of Section 3 (b),
it is clear that the provisions of sub-section (1) shall not apply if
the intermediary has conspired or abetted or aided or induced,
whether by threats or promise or otherwise in the commission of
the unlawful act; upon receiving actual knowledge, or on being
notified by the appropriate Government or its agency that any
information, data or communication link residing in or connected
to a computer resource controlled by the intermediary is being
used to commit the unlawful act, the intermediary fails to
expeditiously remove or disable access to that material on that
resource without vitiating the evidence in any manner.
        In the present facts of the case, it is not the case of the
respondent No.1/plaintiff, that intermediary  appellant/defendant
No.2 has received actual knowledge about posting of defamatory
statement by the defendant No.1 in the web blog of defendant
No.3.
 In Shreya Singhal v. Union of India, (referred supra) the
Apex Court applied Rule 3 of the Rules framed thereunder, which
reads as follows:
        Under the 2011 Rules, by Rule 3 an intermediary has not
only to publish the rules and Regulations, privacy policy and user
agreement for access or usage of the intermediary's computer
resource but he has also to inform all users of the various
matters set out in Rule 3(2). Since Rule 3(2) and 3(4) are
important, they are set out hereinbelow:
        3. Due diligence to be observed by intermediary.--The
intermediary shall observe following due diligence while
discharging his duties, namely:
        (2) Such rules and Regulations, terms and conditions or
user agreement shall inform the users of computer resource not
to host, display, upload, modify, publish, transmit, update or
share any information that--
        (a) belongs to another person and to which the user does
not have any right to;
        (b) is grossly harmful, harassing, blasphemous
defamatory, obscene, pornographic, paedophilic, libellous,
invasive of another's privacy, hateful, or racially, ethnically
objectionable, disparaging, relating or encouraging money
laundering or gambling, or otherwise unlawful in any manner
whatever;
        (c) harm minors in any way;
        (d) infringes any patent, trademark, copyright or other
proprietary rights;
        (e) violates any law for the time being in force;
        (f) deceives or misleads the addressee about the origin of
such messages or communicates any information which is grossly  
offensive or menacing in nature;
        (g) impersonate another person;
        (h) contains software viruses or any other computer code,
files or programs designed to interrupt, destroy or limit the
functionality of any computer resource;
        (i) threatens the unity, integrity, defence, security or
sovereignty of India, friendly relations with foreign states, or
public order or causes incitement to the commission of any
cognisable offence or prevents investigation of any offence or is
insulting any other nation.
        (4) The intermediary, on whose computer system the 
information is stored or hosted or published, upon obtaining
knowledge by itself or been brought to actual knowledge by an
affected person in writing or through e-mail signed with electronic
signature about any such information as mentioned in Sub-rule
(2) above, shall act within thirty-six hours and where applicable,
work with user or owner of such information to disable such
information that is in contravention of Sub-rule (2). Further the
intermediary shall preserve such information and associated
records for at least ninety days for investigation purposes.
        Learned counsel for the plaintiff assailed Rules 3 (2) and 3
(4) on two basis grounds. Firstly, the intermediary is called upon
to exercise its own judgment under sub-rule (4) and then disable
information that is in contravention of sub-rule (2), when
intermediaries by their very definition are only persons who offer
a neutral platform through which persons may interact with each
other over the internet.
        Therefore, to avoid liability by the intermediaries, he has to
exercise due diligence as contemplated under Rule 3.
        But due diligence is not exactly defined by the Act, but in
Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. v. Precious Finance
Investment Pvt. Ltd 
        The Dictionary meaning of the expression "due diligence"
as given in the Blacks Law Dictionary, Sixth Edition, 1990 means
"Such a measure of prudence, activity or assiduity, as is properly
to be expected from, and ordinarily exercised by, a reasonable
and prudent man under the particular circumstances; not
measured by any absolute standard, but depending on the 
relative facts of the special case." Similarly the Law Lexicon by P.
Ramanatha Aiyer, Second Edition (Reprint) 2001 explains "due 
diligence" to mean such watchful caution and foresight as the
circumstances of the particular case demands. While examining 
the explanation offered or cause shown as to why in spite of due
diligence a party could not have raised the matter before
commencement of trial, the Court may have to see the
circumstances in which the party is seeking amendment. In short
the explanation as to "due diligence" depends upon the particular
circumstances and the relative facts of each case to reach a
conclusion one way or the other.
 In Chander Kanta Bansal v. Rajinder Singh Anand 
the Apex Court while deciding a matter pertaining to amendment
of pleadings under Order VI Rule 17 of C.P.C. discussed about the
word due diligence in paragraph No.16 as follows:
        The words "due diligence" has not been defined in the
Code. According to Oxford Dictionary (Edition 2006), the word
"diligence" means careful and persistent application or effort.
"Diligent" means careful and steady in application to one's work
and duties, showing care and effort. As per Black's Law Dictionary
(Eighth Edition), "diligence" means a continual effort to accomplish
something, care; caution; the attention and care required from a
person in a given situation. "Due diligence" means the diligence
reasonably expected from, and ordinarily exercised by, a person
who seeks to satisfy a legal requirement or to discharge an
obligation. According to Words and Phrases by Drain-Dyspnea 
(Permanent Edition 13A) "due diligence", in law, means doing
everything reasonable, not everything possible. "Due
diligence" means reasonable diligence; it means such diligence as
a prudent man would exercise in the conduct of his own affairs.
        In view of the definition of due diligence referred supra in the
judgment of Bombay High Court and Apex Court, to avoid its
liability by the intermediary, the intermediary has to prove that he
has acted as an ordinary reasonable prudent man and it is a
question of fact.
        In the pleadings before the trial Court, there is no allegation
that the appellant/defendant No.2 negligently allowed postings in
the web-blog and such posting of content is in actual knowledge,
in the absence of any such pleading to claim exemption under
Section 79 (3) of the Act, the appellant/defendant No.2 is not
expected to adduce any evidence to disown its liability under the
penumbra of Section 79 (3) of I.T. Act. However, it is a question of
fact and when the trial Court and the first appellate Court held
that the appellant/defendant No.2 is not liable while answering
issue No.3 by the trial Court and point for consideration by the
first appellate Court in paragraph No.21 (b), this Court while
exercising jurisdiction under Section 100 of C.P.C. cannot disturb
such findings in view of lack of evidence regarding exercise of due
diligence by the appellant/defendant No.2 and actual knowledge as
required under Section 79 (3) of the Information Technology Act
and Rule 3 of the Rules.
        On this ground, no liability can be attached to the
appellant/defendant No.2 for the defamatory content posted by the
plaintiff/defendant No.1 in the web-blog of defendant No.3.
         In view of the law declared by the Apex Court in Shreya
Singhal v. Union of India, (referred supra), it is for the
intermediary to prove that it had exercised due diligence in
allowing posting of any content on the web-blog of the defendant
No.3. Here, the Gate keeping theory is applicable to the Internet, it
has already been discussed in detail by more than one scholar
Jonathan Zittrain, in his book History of Online Gate keeping and
Harvard Journal of Law and Technology 2 (2006), where authors
described the intermediaries as Gatekeepers and concluded that
making gatekeepers liable for enforcing law is a common choice
within legal frameworks. It has been explored in some detail by
Reinier Kraakman, who distinguishes it from other kinds of
collateral or third party liability by explaining that gatekeepers are
private parties who are in a position to disrupt misconduct by
withholding their cooperation from wrongdoers in his book the
Anatomy of a Third-Party Enforcement Strategy.
        But the theory of gatekeeper attached more responsibility to
the intermediary and it is only an effort to control online content
by leveraging the position of the gatekeepers to flow of information
online. The reasoning here is that since online intermediaries such
as Avnish Bajaj v. State  (referred to as the Bazee.com case)
(or Facebook, Gmail, Google or The Pirate Bay) host and facilitate
access to vast amounts of Internet content, and since internet
service providers such as Airtel or BSNL physically connect users
to the Internet, they are the gatekeepers presiding over the flow of
information. Therefore, making these gatekeepers liable for
blocking, filtering and removing illegal content, is seen as an
effective way to put a stop to the sharing of illegal content. This is
particularly appealing in contexts in which the author of illegal
content is difficult to identify, or is based in another country, and
cannot be located, much less prosecuted, in India. In these
contexts, it is very difficult for the government to raise the expected
penalties applicable to the wrongdoers. Therefore, direct deterrence
becomes ineffective, creating the need to explore third party
liability.
        Coming to India in Baazee.coms case the High Court of
Delhi had an occasion to deal with a similar situation with
reference to provisions of the Act and later it was dealt at length
with reference to foreign judgments in Shreya Singhal v. Union
of India, (referred supra) elaborately and pointed out that it is
difficult to attach liability to the intermediaries and propounded
the theory of due diligence based on Section 79 (3) of the Act and
the law declared by the Apex Court in Shreya Singhal v. Union
of India, (referred supra) is binding on the courts in India.
        Various theories of liability like strict liability standard
cannot be applied to the provisions of Information Technology Act.
        As observed in the earlier paragraphs, the judgments of
Foreign Courts are not binding precedents under Article 141 of
Constitution of India. But the law in India on the intermediaries
liability is not yet developed except for the first time in Shreya
Singhal v. Union of India, (referred supra) by the Apex Court.
One of the reasons for non-adverting to the liability declared by the
Foreign Courts by the trial Court is that the judgments of Foreign
Courts are not binding precedents, but in Shreya Singhal v.
Union of India, (referred supra) the Apex Court formulated its
principles based on the principles laid down in the foreign
judgments. However, the judgments of Foreign Courts have highest
persuasive value though not binding precedents as held in
Forasol v. ONGC (referred supra). Therefore, the law declared by
the Foreign Courts can be looked into but lay down the law with
the assistance of those Judgments.
        Learned counsel for the appellant  defendant No.2 drawn
the attention of this Court to a judgment of the Apex Court
rendered in Vodafone International Holdings BV v. Union of
India and another (referred supra), wherein the conflict is with
regard to liability of the directors of the company was decided but
it is of no help to the present issue involved.
        Learned counsel for the appellant also drawn the attention of
this Court to a judgment of Court of Milan, Division Specialising in
the Field of Industrial and Intellectual Property, rendered in ISI
SRL v Google Italy Srl, Google Infrastructure Srl, Yahoo!
Italia Srl., (G.R.No.61372/2011) wherein it is held in paragraph
No.2 as follows:        
        In relation to the position of Google Italy and Google
Infrastructure, the objection raised concerning the Defendants
lacking the capacity to be sued, appears to be founded. The
records of proceedings show that the Google Groups services are
managed directly and exclusively by Google Inc., a company 
governed by US Laws, which is separated and independent from  
the defendants. This is confirmed by the contractual terms, which
can easily be consulted by accessing the Terms of Service link
present in every page of the service in question. Moreover, the
interlocution at the out-of-Court stage (see doc.15 of the plaintiff),
was unable to raise doubts on the point, so much so that Google
responses expressly invoked current U.S.law. Furthermore, there
are no subscriptions or other indications of origin from the
answer that can itself be traced back in any way to one of the two
defendant parties listed.
        Regarding the issue and solely with reference to the
residual position of Yahoo, the claim is not founded and as such
it must be denied.
        Learned counsel for the appellant further drawn the
attention of this Court to another judgment of High Court of
Newzealand  in A v. Google Newzealand Ltd. (referred supra),
wherein the question came up before the said Court is that the
responsibility of a search engine service provider for the content of
information on third party websites accessed from search results
and after analyzing provisions of Newzealand enactments it is held
that the plaintiffs causes of action cannot succeed against the
defendant. Accordingly, the plaintiffs application is dismissed, and
summary judgment is awarded to the defendant against the 
plaintiff.
        Learned counsel for the appellant drawn the attention of this
Court to another judgment rendered by the District Court of South
Australia in Duffy v. Google Inc. and another (referred supra).
It is only District Court judgment in Australia, which I need not
advert to the principle laid down therein.
        Time and again similar issues came up before Foreign
Courts.
        In Playboy Enterprises INC v Frena  it is held as follows:
        This was one of the initial cases wherever liability of ISPs
for the copyright infringement of subscribers was examined.The
 defendant, George Frena, operated a Bulletin Board Service
(BBS) for those who purchased bound product from the suspect 
and anyone who paid  a  fee might  log  on  and  browse through
totally different  BBS  directories  to  look  at  the pictures  and
they might conjointly transfer  copies  of  the photographs. Among
several images  that  the defendant created offered  to  his
customers,  one hundred  and  seventy  were unauthorized
proprietary photographs that  belonged  to  the litigant. The
Court  noted  that  the  intent  of  the  BBS operator was
irrelevant  and applied  strict  liability  principle  of  the
Copyright  Act. The  BBS  operator  was liable  for direct
infringement as a result of  the defendants system itself
equipped  unauthorized  copies of proprietary work  and created
them offered  to  the  public. It was irrelevant  that the suspect
did not create  infringing copies itself. However, with time the
Courts  ruling was widely  debated  and  discredited.
        In Religious Technology Center v. Netcom  it is held as
follows:
        Few  years  later, came the Netcom case. The plaintiffs,
Religious Technology  Center  (RTC) control copyrights  in  the
unpublished  and revealed  works of L Ron  Hubbard,  the
founder  of  the  Church  of Scientology.  The suspect,  Erlich
was  a  former minister  of religion who  had  later on become  a
vocal critic  of  the  Church.  On associate  on-line  forum  for
discussion  and  criticism  of religion, Erlich announce portions
of  the  works  of  L Ron  Hubbard.  Erlich gained  his  access  to
the web  through  BBS that was  not  directly joined  to web,
however  was connected through  Netcom  On-Line  
Communications INC. After failing  to win over  Erlich  to  stop
his  postings,  RTC contacted  BBS  and  Netcom.  The  owner  of
BBS demanded  the litigant  to  prove  that  they owned   the
copyrights of  the works announce  by  Erlich therefore  that  he
would  be unbroken  off  the  BBS. The  plaintiffs  refused BBS
owners  request  as  unreasonable. Netcom similarly  refused
plaintiffs  request  that  Erlich not be allowed  to  gain  access  to
web  through  its  system. Netcom contended  that  it  would  be
not possible  to prescreen Erlichs  postings  and  that  to
forestall  Erlich from victimization  the web meant  doing  the
same  to hundreds  of  users  of  BBS.  Consequently,  plaintiffs
sued  BBS  and  Netcom  in  their  suit  against  Erlich  for
copyright  infringement  on  the web. The  Court  reasoned  that
eventhough  copyright  is  a strict  liability  statute,  there ought
to  be  some part  of volition  or causing that  is lacking wherever
a defendants  system  is simply  used  to produce  a  copy  by
third  party.  The  Court additional  noted  that,  when  the
subscriber  is  directly  liable  it  is senseless  to  hold different
parties  (whose  involvement  is simply  providing Internet
facilities)  liable  for  actions of  the subscriber. The  Court
conjointly  noted  that  the  notice  of  infringing activity  of
service supplier can  implicate  him  for contributory  negligence
as  failure  to forestall associate infringing copy from being
distributed would constitute substantial participation.
        Substantial participation  is wherever  the suspect has
data of primary  infringers  infringing  activities  and  induces,
causes  or  materially contributes  to the infringing conduct of
primary infringer. The Court rejected  the argument of  the
suspect  that associate  ISP  is similar  to  a common carrier and
so  entitled  to  exemption from  strict  liability written in  Section
III of  the Copyright  Act  and declared  that carriers are  not sure
to carry all  the traffic  that passes through  them. Nevertheless,
the Court  did not  impose  direct infringement  liability  on ISP
as  that  would  result  in  liability  for every single server
transmitting information  to each different laptop.
 In Viacom International, INC. v. Youtube, INC  the
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit discussed about safe
harbor to an intermediary and held that in construing the
statutory safe harbor, the District Court concluded that the actual
knowledge or aware(ness) of facts or circumstances that would
disqualify online service provider from safe harbor protection
under US laws. The Court further held that item-specific
knowledge of infringing activity is required for a service provider to
have the right and ability control.
        It is further held that the basic function of the YouTube
website permits users to "upload" and view video clips free of
charge. Before uploading a video to YouTube, a user must register
and create an account with the website. The registration process
requires the user to accept YouTube's Terms of Use agreement, 
which provides, inter alia, that the user "will not submit material
that is copyrighted  unless [he is] the owner of such rights or
ha[s] permission from their rightful owner to post the material and
to grant YouTube all of the license rights granted herein." When
the registration process is complete, the user can sign in to his
account, select a video to upload from the user's personal
computer, mobile phone, or other device and instruct the YouTube
system to upload the video by clicking on a virtual upload "button."    
The same is the procedure in Google Website. Thus, if the actual
knowledge to the intermediary is proved, then intermediary cannot
escape its liability.
        In Barnhart v. Sigmon Coal Co.  certain guidelines were
framed to claim benefit under safe harbor, which are as follows:      
         (i) does not have actual knowledge that the material or an
activity using the material on the system or network is infringing;
        (ii) in the absence of such actual knowledge, is not aware
of facts or circumstances from which infringing activity is
apparent; or
        (iii) upon obtaining such knowledge or awareness, acts
expeditiously to remove, or disable access to, the material.

        If these principles are applied, intermediary cannot be made
liable.
        In Godfrey v. Demon Internet Ltd.  the responsibility of
intermediary for publication of defamatory statement came up for
consideration, while considering the scope of intermediary liability
expressed its view that as a service provider who transmitted or
facilitated the transmission to any of their news group subscribers
of a posting received and stored by them via the Internet the
defendants were a publisher of that posting at common law; that
they were not merely the passive owner of an electronic device
through which postings were transmitted but actively chose to
receive and store the news group exchanges containing the posting
which could be accessed by their subscribers, and could have
chosen to obliterate the posting complained of, as they later did;
that, although they were not a publisher within the meaning of
section I (2) and (3) of the 1996 Act and could therefore satisfy
section I (I) (a) of that Act, once they knew of the defamatory
content of the posting and chose not to remove it from their news
server they could no longer satisfy the additional requirements of
section I (I) (b), that they took reasonable care in relation to the
publication, or section I (I) (c), that they did not know and had no
reason to believe that what they did caused or contributed to the
publication; and that, accordingly, the parts of their pleaded
defence which relied on section I (I) of the 1996 Act would be
struck out.
        High Court of Australia in Dow Jones and Company INC v.
Joseph Gutnick    had an occasion to decide posting of sexually
explicit photographs and heavily relied on such publication under
laws of Australia and held that it not single publication which
contained defamatory material complained and when the 
subordinate distributor did not know that the publication
contained the defamatory material complained of; the subordinate
distributor did not know that the publication was of a character
likely to contain defamatory material and such want of knowledge
was not due to negligence on the part of the subordinate
distributor, but the publication under the rules would give rise to a
separate cause of action in view of Australia and English law.
Therefore, the torts of libel and slander are committed when and
where comprehension of the defamatory matter occurs. The rules 
have been universally applied to publications by spoken word, in
writing, on television, by radio transmission, over the telephone or
over the internet. In Browne v. Dunn  the House of Lords held
that there was no publication of a defamatory petition to a person
(Mrs Cook) who had signed but not read the petition. On an overall
consideration, the Court concluded that the Court has got
jurisdiction since it amounts to defamatory in nature.
        The Supreme Court of the United States in United States
v. X-Citement Viedo, INC., ET AL.  held as follows:
        Because the term knowingly in 2252 (a) (1) and (2)
modifies the phrase the use of a minor in subsections (1) (A) and
(2) (A), the Act is properly read to include a scienter requirement
for age of minority. This Court rejects the most natural
grammatical reading, adopted by the Ninth Circuit, under which
knowingly modifies only the relevant verbs in subsections (1) and
(2), and does not extent to the elements of the minority of the
performers, or the sexually explicit nature of the material, because
they are set forth in independent clauses separated by interruptive
punctuation. Some applications of that reading would sweep
within the statutes admit actors who had no idea that they were
even dealing with sexually explicit material, an anomalous result
that the Court will not assume congress to have intended.
Moreover, Morissette v. United States, 342 U.S. 246, 271, 72 S.Ct.
240, 254, 96 L.Ed. 288, reinforced by Staples v. United States, 511
U.S. 600, 619, 114 S.Ct. 1793, 1804, 128 L.Ed.2d 608, instructs
that the standard presumption in favor of a scienter requirement
should apply to each of the statutory elements that criminalize
otherwise innocent conduct, and the minority status of the
performers is the crucial element separating legal innocence from
wrongful conduct. The legislative history, although unclear as to
whether Congress intended knowingly to extend to performer age,
persuasively indicates that the word applies to the sexually explicit
conduct depicted, and thereby demonstrates that knowingly is
emancipated from merely modifying the verbs in subsections (1)
and (2). As a matter of grammar, it is difficult to conclude that the
word modifies one of the elements in subsections (1) (A) and (2) (A),
but not the other. This interpretation is supported by the canon
that a statute is to be construed where fairly possible so as to
avoid substantial constitutional questions.
        Supreme Court of Florida in Jane Doe, mother and legal
guardian of John Doe, a minor v. America Online, INC. 
based on policy underlying the CDA and the CDAs explicit
legislative history held as follows:
        It is inconceivable that Congress intended the CDA to
shield from potential liability an ISP alleged to have taken
absolutely no actions to curtail illicit activities in furtherance of
conduct defined as criminal, despite actual knowledge that a
source of child pornography was being advertised and delivered
through contact information provided on its service by an
identified customer, while profiting from its customer's continued
use of the service. Such an interpretation transforms a statute
intended to further and support responsible ISP efforts to protect
children and the public from even questionably harmful and
illegal materials into a statute which both condones and
exonerates a flagrant and reprehensible failure to act by an ISP in
the face of allegedly specific, known dissemination of material
unquestionably harmful to children. In my view, the
interpretation adopted today provides a foundation for far-ranging
forms of illegal conduct (possibly harmful to society in far
different ways) which ISPs can, very profitably and with total
immunity, knowingly allow their customers to operate through
their Internet services. I fear that the blanket immunity
interpretation adopted by the majority today thrusts Congress
into the unlikely position of having enacted legislation that
encourages and protects the involvement of ISPs as silent
partners in criminal enterprises for profit.
        The Supreme Court of the United States in Edmund G. 
Brown, JR., Governor of California, ET AL. v. Entertainment
Merchants Association ET AL.  held as follows:
        The majority's circular argument misses the point. The
question is not whether certain laws might make sense to judges
or legislators today, but rather what the public likely understood
"the freedom of speech" to mean when the First Amendment was   
adopted. See District of Columbia v. Heller,
MANU/USSC/0047/2008:  554 U. S. 570, 634-635 (2008). I   
believe it is clear that the founding public would not have
understood "the freedom of speech" to include speech to minor
children bypassing their parents. It follows that the First
Amendment imposes no restriction on state regulation of such
speech. To note that there may not be "precedent for [such] state
control," ante, at 8, n. 3, "is not to establish that [there] is a
constitutional right," McIntyre v. Ohio Elections Comm'n,
MANU/USSC/0036/1995 : 514 U. S. 334, 373 (1995) (SCALIA,    
J., dissenting).
        However, the foreign judgments are not binding precedents
within the scope of Article 141 of Constitution of India, at best they
would have highest persuasive value and apart from that the
provisions of the Act are in pari materia, in such case this Court
can fallback on the principles laid down in those judgments.
Moreover, in Shreya Singhal v. Union of India (referred supra),
the Apex Court persuaded by those judgments came to such   
conclusion. In those circumstances, based on the principles laid
down in the foreign judgments and the Apex Court in Shreya
Singhal v. Union of India (referred supra), this Court can safely
conclude that the appellant/defendant No.2 is not responsible for
the defamatory, posted by the defendant No.1 in the web-blog of
defendant No.3, which is directly under its control and the
defendant No.2 has nothing to do with the content and it can
neither edit or remove any such defamatory statement.
        The order of the day in our country is that most of the
websites are being mis-used by the general public for one reason
or the other and internet users creating fake accounts both in the
Face book and other internet service providers like Google and
posting sexually explicit material and sometimes defamatory
statements inviting comments from the net users, as such it is
difficult for the service provider or intermediary to keep watch on
such accounts of net users, which are in millions everyday.
Moreover, such fake statements i.e. sexually explicit material and
defamatory statements would cause incalculable damage to the 
reputation of the individuals, which reduces the image of the
individual in the society and sometimes it would adversely effect
the key position occupied by such person in the society. But the
Information Technology Act produced some leverage to such 
intermediaries subject to attributing actual knowledge as required
under Section 79 (3) (b) of Information Technology Act and proof of
exercise of due diligence by the intermediary as per Rule 3 of rules
framed thereunder. Sometimes, even after issue of notice of cease
and desist, intermediary expressing its inability to remove or block
those defamatory contents or sexually explicit material only on the
ground that it has no control over it and the internet service
provider directing the parties to approach the Court and obtain
order for removal of such material; indirectly it amounts to
encouraging the net users to post such defamatory content or
sexually explicit material including child pornography in the
websites and it will be continued on the website till a direction was
issued by competent Court for removal of such content. It is also a
known fact how much delay is being caused in the present
adversarial system in Indian Courts and sometimes it will take
years together and by the time direction was issued by the Courts,
total reputation of such person against whom such defamatory
content was posted would be greatly effected in the eye of the
society and sometimes personal attacks against such persons and  
exposing those persons by sexually explicit material by morphing
etc., would seriously effects the character and image of such
person. Therefore, the Courts should give preference to such suits
or petitions filed before the Courts and grant instant relief by way
of interim orders to block or removal of such defamatory or
sexually explicit content against the internet service provider,
otherwise approaching Court for such relief is nothing but a futile
exercise even if a direction is given after lapse of few years and it
would not serve any purpose and the loss caused to such persons 
would not be compensated in monetary terms, but the present law 
under Information Technology Act is not able to provide such
immediate reliefs to the person aggrieved by such defamatory or
sexually explicit content or hate speeches etc. Therefore, the
Legislature has to take necessary steps to provide safeguard to the
interest of public at large on account of such defamatory content,
sexually explicit material or pornography etc. by creating fake
accounts by the net users and to provide stringent punishment to
such net users, who created fake accounts and posted such 
material, by necessary amendment to the Information Technology 
Act and Rules.
        In the present facts of the case, the contention of the
respondent No.1 - plaintiff was that a defamatory statement was
posted by the respondent No.2  defendant No.1 in the web-blog of
the defendant No.3 and the defendant No.2 hosted such content 
and despite the demand made by the plaintiff, the defendant No.2
did not remove the content or blocked access to the site and
consequently claimed a mandatory injunction.
        Thus, the principle laid down in all the judgments is only
based on actual knowledge about posting of defamatory or any
content by the 3rd parties on the web-blog. The same is the
language used in Section 79 (3) (b) of the Information Technology
Act. Added to that another safeguard is provided under Rule 3 of
the Rules framed thereunder i.e. exercise of due diligence. If the
intermediary exercised due diligence and when such posting of
defamatory content in the web-blog came to their actual knowledge
or brought to their actual knowledge, the intermediary has to take
steps to block access to such content or remove such content from
the blog after due verification. Therefore, the actual knowledge and
exercise of due diligence is a matter of evidence and while deciding
the lis before the trial Court and the first appellate Court, the
Court has to consider the evidence adduced by both the parties to
find out whether any actual knowledge was attributed to the
intermediary by the plaintiff and whether the intermediary
exercised due diligence and such question is a question of fact,
which cannot be gone into by this Court in Second Appeal while
exercising power under Section 100 of C.P.C.
        The trial Court and the first appellate Court did not record
any specific finding with regard to exercise of due diligence by the
intermediary and on actual knowledge was attributed by the
plaintiff to the defendant Nos.2 and 3 in the cease and desist
notice demanding them to remove the said content. But no notice
was issued to the defendant No.3 demanding it to remove such 
content. It is the contention of the defendant No.2 that defendant
No.2 is only an intermediary and the entire control over the
website is with the defendant No.3 and defendant No.3 alone is
competent to remove or block any such postings of defamatory 
material on verification. As seen from Exs.B.3 and B.4 i.e. Google
Groups  Terms of Service and Google Groups content policy. It is
clear that defendant No.3 is alone competent to remove or block
any defamatory content or sexually explicit material posted by 3rd
parties on the web-blog or URL of the defendant No.3. In such
circumstances, even if any knowledge is attributed to the
defendant No.2, it has no control over the website. In such case, it
is impossible for defendant No.2 to block access to the defamatory
content posted by the defendant No.1 or remove it from the web-
blog. The trial Court rightly exonerated the defendant No.2/
appellant from its liability and the same was affirmed by the 1st
appellate Court in paragraph 21 (b) of its judgment, but strangely
without applying its mind issued a direction to remove the
defamatory content posted by the defendant No.1 against the
plaintiff in the message Nos.1 and 2 referred supra, such direction
in the nature of mandatory injunction against defendant
Nos.2 and 3 is erroneous. Therefore, the direction issued by the
first appellate Court against defendant No.2 is liable to be set aside
since it is contrary to its findings in paragraph No.21 (b) of the
judgment. 
        Though, the adverse finding recorded by the first appellate
Court against the plaintiff, the plaintiff had neither challenged the
adverse finding recorded by the first appellate Court in paragraph
No.21 (b) either by filing cross objections or separate appeal or at
least during hearing of this appeal in view of Order XLI Rule 22 of
C.P.C. In the absence of any separate appeal or cross objections by
the plaintiff, it is impermissible to upset the finding of the first
appellate Court recorded against the plaintiff and in favour of
defendant No.2 in paragraph No.21 (b) of its judgment since the
said finding attained finality as it remained unchallenged as per
the procedure provided in C.P.C.
        The trial Court exonerated the defendant No.2 totally from
its liability to take any action for removal of defamatory content,
but the appellate Court in its inconsistent finding at paragraph
No.23 concluded that the defendant No.2 also liable and directed
to withdraw the messages posted by the defendant No.1, but 
strangely the first appellate Court affirmed the finding recorded by
the trial Court regarding appellant/defendant No.2. Therefore, on
the face of the judgment, it is erroneous and inconsistent with one
finding to the other, such judgment cannot be sustained under
law, more particularly when it is in compliance of Order XLI Rule
31 C.P.C. Therefore, it is liable to be set aside. Accordingly, the
substantial question of law is answered in favour of the appellant/
defendant No.2 and against the plaintiff/respondent No.1 herein.
        In the result, the appeal is allowed setting aside the
judgment and decree dated 29.01.2016 passed in A.S.No.50 of  
2014 by the I Additional Chief Judge, City Civil Court,
Secunderabad dismissing the suit against the defendant No.2 in
O.S.No.143 of 2010 on the file of the XVIII Junior Civil Judge 
cum  Additional Rent Controller, Secunderabad. No costs.
        The miscellaneous petitions pending, if any, shall also stand
closed.
________________________________________       
JUSTICE M. SATYANARAYANA MURTHY          
Date: 18.11.2016
          











