









K.R.Ravi Rathinam vs The Director General Of Police on 3 December, 2014



Share Link
Mobile View



Premium Members
Advanced Search
Case Removal








 Cites 19 docs 
      
        - [View All]
      
      
The Part B States (Laws) Act,   1951
The Information Technology Act, 2000
Article 226 in The Constitution Of India   1949
The Indian Penal Code
Section 72 in The Information Technology Act, 2000

















Warning on Translation



User Queries
film
copy rights
copyright
information technology act
information technology 
information technology act 2000
magazine
section 66
film industry
periyar
dams
tallakulam
information act
copy right act
intellectual
website
information technology 2000
information act 2000
intellectual property     filter:     case law on confidential information
intellectual property




Take notes as you read a judgment using our Virtual Legal Assistant and get email alerts whenever a new judgment matches your query (Query Alert Service). Try out our Premium Member services -- Free for one month.

Madras High Court
K.R.Ravi Rathinam vs The Director General Of Police on 3 December, 2014       

  

  

 
 
 BEFORE THE MADURAI BENCH OF MADRAS HIGH COURT

Dated:     3/12/2014

CORAM
THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE  M.VENUGOPAL

Writ Petition (MD) No.18210 of 2014
a n d
M.P.(MD) Nos.1 and 2 of 2014


K.R.Ravi Rathinam				...	Petitioner


Vs


1.  The Director General of Police
     Dr. Kamarajar Salai
     Mylapore
     Chennai.

2.  The Inspector General of Police
     South Zone
     New Natham Road
     Madurai.

3.  The Commissioner of Police
     Madurai City
     Madurai.




4.  The Secretary
     The Ministry of Information and
         Broadcasting
     Union of India
     New Delhi.


5.  The Secretary
     Information and Cinema
     Fort St. George
     Chennai.

6.  The Chief Producer
     Government of India Films Division
     Shastri Bhavan
     Haddows Road
     Egmore
     Chennai.

7.  'Rockline' Venkatesh
      Producer ? 'Linga'
      No.89 Rajkumar Street
      Bangalore City.

8.  B. Ponkumar

9.  'Abirami' Ramanathan
     President
     Tamil Nadu Theatre Owners
        Welfare Association
     Nadigar Sangam Buildings and
         Saligramam Sony Studios
     Habibullah Road
     T. Nagar
     Chennai.

10.K.S.Ravikumar
     Film Director
     'Linga'
     41 Kodambakkam High Road
     Chennai.


11.  Shivaji Rao Gaeakwad @
           Rajinikanth
       Distributor for M.R.T.K and
           VCKT Areas
       'Linga'
      64 Poes Garden Main Road
      Chennai.					...	Respondents



	Petition filed under Article 226 of the Constitution of India praying
for the issuance of a Writ of Mandamus to direct the Respondents 1 to 6 to
act upon the petitioner's representation dated 1/11/2014 by conducting a
detailed enquiry after appointing a Fact Finding Committee into the true
authorship and ownership of the single story line found in both feature films
'Mullai Vanam 999' and 'Linga' so as to legalize the production and release
of both on or before 12/12/2014.

!For Petitioner 		...   	Mr.W.Peter Rameshkumar
					
^For Respondents	...   	Mr.K.Chellapandian, AAG
	     		      	assisted by
	                    	Mr.V.Muruganandam
	      		     	Additional Government Pleader
	                     	for R.R.1 to 3, 5
					
				      		     	Mr.G.R.Swaminathan
			                   	   Assistant Solicitor General of
India
				    		       for R.R.4 and 6.

				     			Mr.Sanjay Ramasamy
				     			for R.R.7 and 11.

				     			Mr.Ravi
				     			for Rugan and Arya
				     			for R.R.8 and 10.

			     			     For R-9, Notice not yet Returned.
							(No appearance).

Date of Reserving Orders - 24/11/2014)
- - - - -
:ORDER

	Heard both sides.

	2.  The Petitioner has projected the present Writ of Mandamus praying
for passing of an order by this Court in directing the Respondents 1 to 6 to
act upon his representation dated 1/11/2014 by conducting a detailed enquiry
after appointing the Fact Finding Committee into the true authorship and
ownership of the  single story line found in both feature films 'Mullai Vanam
999' and 'Linga' so as to legalise the production and release of both on or
before 12/12/2014.

	3.  THE RESUME OF FACTS OF WRIT PETITION:-  The  Petitioner is a
debutant Director for the Tamil feature film 'Mullai Vanam 999' to be
produced by Ranga Pon Solai Films.  He was in the serial field and for the
first time, he is entering into the Tamil Nadu Tinsel Film Industry as
Director through the aforesaid 'Mullai Vanam 999' and further, he is the
owner and author of the story, screenplay and direction.

	4.  According to the Petitioner, 'Mullai Vanam 999' is a story back
grounding the Mullai Periyar and the construction done by 'Penny Quick' apart
from National Unification of Rivers and Rivulets.  The entire story was
uploaded by him in the 'You Tube' a social website on 24/2/2013 itself.  All
the film stories are being floated in the social websites to show the
ownership of films when the same is not patented at Chennai.  Further, a
number of new channels like Ottran Seithi, Sun Network, Kalaingar Network,
Raj Network, Jaya Network, Mega T.V and Vasanth T.V telecasted  the same.
Also from 26/2/2013 onwards 'You Tube' floated the same in public domain.

	5.  On 24/2/2013 at 10.00 a.m., pooja for 'Mullai Vanam 999' was
celebrated in AVM Studios which was presided over by several VIPs,
Dignitaries and the shooting for his new film is to be shot from January 2015
onwards, both indoors and outdoors.  Further, pre-shooting initiations were
conducted around Theni ? Madurai Districts and Kerala for the past ten months
while staying at Theni International Guest House along with the Producers,
Artists, Cameramen and other off-screen Technicians.

	6.  To the Petitioner's great shock and surprise, on 2/5/2014, while
browsing 'You Tube', his story was appearing in the film named 'Linga', as if
produced by the Seventh Respondent directed by the Tenth Respondent, story by
the Eighth Respondent and to be acted and distributed by the 11th Respondent.
The aforesaid Respondents had clandestinely  stolen his property from 'You
Tube' and posted the same on 2/5/2014.  Whereas the very same story was
floated by him in the name of 'Mullai Vanam 999' as early as 24/2/2013
itself.

	7.  His feature film 'Mullai Vanam 999' is to be produced at the cost
of Rs.3,31,20,000/- and the same is expected to fetch a commercial revenue of
Rs.15 crores through his dream story and screenplay.  Whereas the Respondents
7, 8, 10 and 11 are shooting the feature film 'Linga' at  a lightening speed
both in Mysore, Kerala and Tamil Nadu with his stolen story 'Mullai Vanam
999'.

	8.  The Petitioner had invested 47 years of labour in the film industry
and for the first time, his story 'Mullai Vanam 999' is to be released during
Tamil New Year's day 'Chithirai 2015' whereas his maiden stolen story is to
be released during 'Pongal' 2015 by the Respondents 7, 8, 10 and 11 which
will bring his entire life and future into the dark gallows for ever.
Further, in 'Kungumam' magazine dated 19/5/2014, the stolen story was
reproduced through the auspices of the Respondents 7, 8, 10 and 11.

	9.  The Respondents 7, 8, 10 and 11 have committed offences under
Sections 66 B, 66 E, 72, 72 A r/w. 76 and 77 of the Information Technology
Act, 2000 and Sections 109, 379, 403, 420, 468, 470, 471 along with 120 (b)
of IPC.  The intellectual property from the 'You Tube' was stolen by the
Respondents 7, 8, 10 and 11 for illegally gaining and thereby bringing loss
to his personal exchequer.

	10.  A complaint was preferred to the Respondents 1 to 6 on 1/11/2014
stating that all the offences committed by the Respondents 7, 8, 10 and 11.
So far, no First Information Report has been registered by the Cyber Crime or
any other authority.  Hence the Petitioner has moved this Court under Article
226 of the Constitution of India.

	11.  Also, the Petitioner has prayed for passing of an order by this
Court in directing the Respondents 1 to 3 to take his complaint dated
1/11/2014 for the offences under Sections 66 B, 66 E, 72, 72 A r/w. 76 and 77
of the Information Technology Act, 2000 and Sections 109, 379, 403, 420, 468,
470, 471 along with 120 (b) of IPC, investigate the same and file a final
report before the concerned Court, pending disposal of the main Writ
Petition.

	12.  THE CONTENTS OF COUNTER FILED BY R-3 (FOR HIMSELF) AND ON BEHALF
OF THE RESPONDENTS 1 AND 2:-  The representation of the Petitioner dated
1/11/2014 was sent by 'Registered Post' on 5/11/2014 and the same was
received in his Office on 6/11/2014.  The complaint was forwarded to the
Assistant Commissioner, Tallakulam on 8/11/2014 vide C.No.R.4/785/57850/2014
and he forwarded the same to the Inspector of Police, Tallakulam for an
enquiry.  The Inspector of Police, Tallakulam, conducted an enquiry into the
aforesaid Petition.  During the enquiry, the Writ Petitioner/Complainant
K.R.Ravi Rathinam appeared before the Inspector of Police on 13/11/2014 and
sought time till 20/11/2014 due to his urgent work at Chennai.  He appeared
before the Inspector of Police on 20/11/2014 and gave a statement that he is
directing a film in the name 'Mullai Vanam 999' and produced the invitation
and photographs on the opening ceremony of the said film.

	13.  According to the Writ Petitioner his film 'Mullai Vanam 999' is
based  on Mullai Periyar Dam and Colonel J.Penni Cuick that the pooja for the
film was held on 24/2/2013 at A.V.M.Studio and in that function several VIPs
have participated.  The events of pooja held on 24/2/2013 were telecasted in
'You Tube' and in other channels.  He was doing the preparatory work for the
film and intended to commence shooting from January 2014.   He saw an article
published in 'Kumutham' weekly dated 6/8/2014 and 'Kungumam' weekly dated
19/5/2014 and 'You Tube'  and suspected that the story line of 'Linga'
produced by the Seventh Respondent is similar to that of his film 'Mullai
Vanam 999' and requested to stay the exhibition of film 'Linga' in the said
Petition dated 1/11/2014.

	14.  The Writ Petition is filed for conducting a detailed enquiry after
appointing a Fact finding Committee into the true authorship and ownership of
the single story line found in both feature films 'Mullai Vanam 999' and
'Linga'  even before the Inspector of Police commences his enquiry.  The
relief claimed by the Writ Petitioner is not within the limits of the Police.

	15.  The Petitioner had also prayed for an interim direction  as
against the Respondents 1 to 3 to take is complaint dated 1/11/2014 in
respect of the offences under Sections 66 B, 66 E, 72, 72 A r/w. 76 and 77 of
the Information Technology Act, 2000 and Sections 109, 379, 403, 420, 468,
470, 471 along with 120 (b) of IPC, investigate the same and file a final
report before the concerned Court pending disposal of the above Writ
Petition.

	16.  Section 66 B of the Information Technology Act, 2000 deals with
the 'Punishment for dishonestly receiving stolen computer resource or
communication device'.

	17.  Section 66 E of the  Information Technology Act, 2000 deals with
'Punishment for violation of privacy' which runs as follows:-
	?Whoever, intentionally  or knowingly captures, publishes or transmits
the image of a private area of any person without his or her consent, under
circumstances violating the privacy of that person, shall be punished with
imprisonment which may extend to three years or with fine not exceeding two
lakh rupees, or with both.

	Explanation ? For the purposes of this Section -

	(a).  ?transmit' means to electronically send  a visual image with the
intent that it be viewed by a person or persons;

	(b).  ?capture? with respect to an image, means to videotape,
photograph, film or record by any means;

	(c).  ?private area? means the naked or undergarment clad genitals,
pubic area, buttocks or female breast;

	(d).  ?publishes? means reproduction in the printed or electronic form
and making it available for public;

	(e).  ?under circumstances violating privacy? means circumstances in
which a person can have a reasonable expectation that

	(i).  he or she could disrobe in privacy, without being concerned that
an image of his private area was being captured; or

	(ii).  any part of his or her private area would not be visible to the
public, regardless of whether that person is in a public or private place.?

	18.  Further, Section 66 of the  Information Technology Act, 2000
refers to the offences in regard to the electronically sent visual image with
an intent to be viewed by a person or persons of an image, videotape,
photograph, film or record by any means the naked or undergarment clad
genitals, pubic area, buttocks or female breast.  The facts and circumstances
of the complaint and the statements would not attract an offence under
Section 66 E of the Information Technology Act, 2000.

	19.  Section 72 of the Information Technology Act, 2000 deals with

	'Penalty for breach of confidentiality and privacy' ? Save as otherwise
provided in this Act or any other law for the time being in force, any person
who, in pursuance of any of the powers conferred under this Act, rules or
regulations made thereunder, has secured access to any electronic  record,
book, register, correspondence, information, document or other material
without the consent of the person concerned discloses such electronic record,
book, register, correspondence, information, document or other material to
any other person shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to two years, or with fine which may extend to one lakh rupees or with
both.?

	20.  Section 72 A of the Act deals with

	'Punishment for disclosure of information in breach of lawful contract
? Save as otherwise provided in this Act or any other law for the time being
in force, any person including an intermediary who, while providing services
under the terms of lawful contract, has secured access to any material
containing personal information about another person, with the intent to
cause or knowing that he is likely to cause wrongful loss or wrongful gain
discloses, without the consent of the person concerned, or in breach of a
lawful contract,  such material to any other person, shall be punished with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine which
may extend to five lakh rupees, or with both.

	21.  The offences under Section 72 and 72 A of the Acts are arising out
of a contractual obligation and there is no contractual obligation between
the complainant and the Respondents 7 to 11 and the averments in the
complaint and the statement given by the writ petitioner would not make out
an offence under the above said provisions.

	22.  Section 76 of the Information Technology Act, 2000 deals with
Confiscation of the computer, computer system, floppies, compact disks, tape
drives or any other accessories related thereto, in respect of which any
provision of this Act, rules, orders or regulations made thereunder has been
or is being contravened, shall be liable to confiscation.

	23.  Likewise, the offences under Sections 109, 379, 403, 420, 468,
470, 471 along with 120 (b) of IPC  are also not attracted in the given
circumstances.

	24.  Section 403 relates to 'Dishonest misappropriation of property.
Section 420 relates to 'Cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of
property.'  Section 468 relates to 'Forgery for purpose of cheating'.
Section 470 relates to 'Forged document or electronic record'.  Section 471
relates to 'Using as genuine a forged document or electronic record'.

	25.  The Writ Petitioner has not made out any case that his story is
similar to that of the story of the Eighth Respondent.  The Writ Petitioner
though made a pooja for a film viz., 'Mullai Vanam 999'  the shooting for the
film has not commenced.  Even according to him, he is in the preparatory work
and likely to commence the shooting from January 2015.  He has not produced
the story during the enquiry.  Similarly, the Eighth Respondent also claim
that they have not disclosed the story line anywhere.  The complaint as well
as the Writ Petition is filed on assumption that the story of the film
'Linga' is that of the story and the complainant has not made out any offence
particularly a cognizable offence.

	26.  During the enquiry, the Inspector of Police, Tallakulam, examined
both the parties and recorded their statements.  In view of the Writ Petition
pending before this Court, the Inspector of Police has not proceeded further
and the Respondent Police would act in accordance with the orders of this
Court.

	27.  THE GIST OF COUNTER OF SEVENTH RESPONDENT:-  The Writ Petition is
neither maintainable nor sustainable either in Law or on facts and as such
deserves to be dismissed in liminie.  The Petitioner has sought to invoke the
jurisdiction of an inappropriate forum.   He has not come out with clean
hands and as such not entitled to any relief much less the relief sought for
in the Writ Petition.    That apart, he reserves his right to initiate
appropriate legal action against the Petitioner for malicious prosecution
including damages for defamation.

	28.  As a Producer, he had invested several crores of rupees for
production of the film titled 'Lingaa' being made in Tamil with a huge star
cast having the Eleventh Respondent as a lead actor under the directorial
venture of Tenth Respondent on the story written by the Eighth Respondent.
The said film is on the verge of wrapping up in all cinematic post production
works and is scheduled to be released worldwide.   Further, he denies any
knowledge of the Petitioner claim that he is as debutant Director for a Tamil
feature film 'Mullai Vanam 999' produced by one Ranga Pon Solai Films or that
he was in the serial field and for the first time, he is entering into the
Tamil Nadu Tinsel Film Industry, as a Director through the above mentioned
'Mullai Vanam 999' or that he is the owner and author of the story,
screenplay and Direction.  Absolutely, he has no knowledge of the
Petitioner's alleged claim.  Moreover, he has never seen or heard of the
Petitioner.

	29.  Furthermore, he has no knowledge about the Petitioner's
allegations regarding the story titled 'Mullai Vanam' and also he is not
aware of it being uploaded in 'You Tube' or elsewhere.  Likewise, he is not
aware of the Petitioner's claim regarding the telecast or that it was floated
on 'You Tube' in public domain from any date.  In regard to the Petitioner's
reference to Penny Quick, Mullai Periyar and the subject of National
Justification of Rivers and Rivulets,  there are umpteen stories and articles
revolving the same and the Petitioner apparently seems to have erroneously
concluded that he has a copy right over such a topic.  Therefore, such claims
of the Petitioner are totally untenable, perverse and frivolous.  As per the
custom and practice followed in the film industry, a person claiming that the
copyright of a story authored by him has been infringed and should show that
at least 13 continuous scenes shot in a feature film are similar to the story
claimed to have been authored by him.

	30.  Continuing further, a bare reading of the affidavit filed by the
Petitioner does not disclose such an allegation that the movie titled
'Lingaa' under production has 13 continuous scenes that are similar to the
story claimed to have been authored by him.  As such the claims of the
Petitioner that his copyright is stolen  or infringed is totally baseless and
frivolous and clearly made with mala fide intentions.  In fact, the Eighth
Respondent had registered his story as early as 2010 itself and the
allegation of the Petitioner that the Respondents had clandestinely stolen
his story from 'You Tube' is denied.

	31.  He has no knowledge of the Petitioner or his activities or claims
regarding his budget or expected profits.   As regards the purported article
in 'Kungumam magazine', no one associated to the film had ever spoken about
the film's shooting or even whispered about any of the aspects of the film
till date.  It is surprising to note that how at all the Petitioner is
comparing the story of the film 'Lingaa' with the story claimed to have been
written by him as he has absolutely no access to the story or the contents of
the film which itself would show that he has merely initiated a vexatious
litigation on assumptions and surmises.  Also that all the legal requirements
to safeguard the copy right of the story and other film aspects have been
complied with by them.

	32.  The Petitioner in a fit of deriving publicity has come forward
with the present Writ Petition with an allegation inaction against himself
and the Respondents 8, 10 and 11.  Also, he has failed to make out a prima
facie case against the Respondents.  There is no balance of convenience in
favour of the Petitioner.
		33. THE CONTENTS OF COUNTER OF ELEVENTH RESPONDENT:-  	The
Writ Petition is neither maintainable nor sustainable either in Law or on
facts.  As such, it deserved to be dismissed in liminie.  Further, the
Petitioner has sought to invoke the jurisdiction of inappropriate forum.
Also that he has not come out with clean hands and as such not entitled to
any reliefs much less the reliefs sought for in the Writ Petition.

	34.  This Respondent has no other role in the movie other than being
the lead actor. The Petitioner has made him a party on wrong assumption that
he is a Distributor for M.R.T.K and VCKT areas and such an assumption  is a
false one.  When the Petitioner has arrayed him as  the Eleventh Respondent
on the alleged ground that he is a Distributor has not chosen to array any of
the other Distributors and this would exhibit his true colours.  He reserves
his right to initiate appropriate legal action against the Petitioner for
malicious prosecution including damages for defamation.

	35.  He has been in the Indian Film Industry and in particular the
Tamil film Industry for more than for decades as not only a veteran actor but
also as an eminent Producer, Director, Screen Writer, Playback Singer and
Story Writer.  The Government of India in recognition of his services in the
Film industry  as a whole conferred the prestigious Padma Bhushan Award on
him.  The Government of India in recognition of his services in the film
Industry conferred on him 'Best Entertainer of the Year'  Award.  He has been
conferred several State Awards including 'Kalaimamani Award'.

	36.  He has been enjoying huge fan following, respect and regard as a
matinee idol status in Tamil Nadu and all over India.  He has acted in more
than 100 films, most of them being especially   several hit film in all South
Indian languages as well as other languages including Hindi.  To his credit,
he has also acted in Hollywood films.  He has been rated as a successful film
star and as such enjoy high reputation in and around Tamil Nadu, India as
well as abroad.

	37.  As of now, he has completed the schedule for shooting for the film
titled 'Lingaa' being made in Tamil with a huge star cast under the
Directorial venture of Tenth Respondent on the story written by the Eighth
Respondent  and produced by the Seventh Respondent.  The said film is on the
verge of wrapping up in all cinematic post production works and scheduled to
be released worldwide.

	38.  He categorically denies any knowledge of the Petitioner claim that
he is a Debutant Director for a Tamil feature film 'Mullai Vanam 999'
produced by one Ranga Pon Solai Films or that he was in the serial field and
for the first time, he is entering into the Tamil Nadu Tinsel Film Industry,
as a Director through the above mentioned 'Mullai Vanam 999' or that he is
the owner and author of the Story, Screenplay and Direction.  Further, he has
never seen or heard of the Petitioner.

	39.  Moreover, he has no knowledge about the Petitioner's allegations
regarding a story titled 'Mullai Vanam' and also he is not aware of it being
uploaded in 'You Tube' or elsewhere.  Likewise, he is not aware of the
Petitioner's claim regarding the telecast or that it was floated on 'You
Tube' in public domain from any date.  In regard to the Petitioner's
reference to Penny Quick, Mullai Periyar and the subject of National
Justification of Rivers and Rivulets, there are umpteen stories and articles
revolving the same and the Petitioner apparently seems to have erroneously
concluded that he has a copy right over such a topic.  As such, the claims of
the Petitioner are totally untenable, perverse and frivolous.

	40.  Apart from the above, as per Custom and practice followed in the
film Industry, a person claiming that the copyright of a story authored by
him has been infringed should show at least 13 continuous scenes shot in a
feature film are similar to the story claimed to have been authored by him.
A bare reading of the affidavit filed by the Petitioner does not disclose
such an allegation that the movie titled 'Lingaa' under production has such
13 continuous scenes that are similar to the story claimed to have been
authored by him.   Therefore, the claims of the Petitioner  that his
copyright is stolen or infringed is totally baseless and frivolous.  The
story and screenplay in the movie titled 'Lingaa' was written and created by
the Eighth Respondent and has nothing to do with the Petitioner's story as
claimed by him.   In fact, the Eighth Respondent had  registered  his  story
as early as 2010 itself and the allegation of the Petitioner that the
Respondents had clandestinely stolen his story from 'You Tube' is denied.

	41.  In regard to the purported article in 'Kungumam magazine', no one
associated to the film had ever spoken about the film's shooting or even
whispered about any of the aspects of the film till date.  It is surprising
to note that how at all the Petitioner is comparing the story of the film
'Lingaa' with the story claimed to have been written by him as he has
absolutely no access to the story or the contents of the film which itself
would show that he has merely initiated a vexatious litigation on assumptions
and surmises.  All the legal requirements to safeguard the copy right of the
story and other film aspects have been complied with.

	42.  Further, he and other Respondents associated with the production
of the film 'Lingaa' have not committed any offence much less the offences
alleged by the Petitioner.  Even without ascertaining and properly
appreciating himself about the story line of the film 'Lingaa', the
Petitioner in a fit of deriving publicity has come forward with the Writ
Petition alleging in action on the part of the Respondents 1 to 6 in taking
action against the Respondents 7, 8, 10 and himself.  The Petitioner has
failed to make out a case against the Respondents.   He has been roped into
unnecessary controversy by the Petitioner.

	43.  Added further, he reserves his right to proceed against the
Petitioner for damages in the manner known to Law for his mischievous
intentions and to malign his name and reputation apart from trying to gain
publicity by make such scandalous accusations.  There is no prima facie case
or balance of convenience in favour of the Petitioner.  Further, the
Petitioner has come out with unclean hands as such, the Writ Petition
deserved to be dismissed.

	44.  THE CONTENTS OF COUNTER AFFIDAVIT OF EIGHTH RESPONDENT:-  This
Respondent does not know the petitioner, his background, status or avocation.
Further, the Writ Petition filed by the Petitioner is not maintainable and
deserves to be dismissed in liminie with a direction to the Petitioner to pay
exemplary costs.  Several stories can be conceived and written on the
background of Mullai Periyar issue or the life and service of late John Penny
Quick or on unification of rivers and rivulets in India.  No one can claim
copy right or authorship on these background materials.  He is not aware of
the uploading of the Petitioner's story in any website or telecast of the
same through any channel.  He is equally not aware of the alleged uploading
of the said story in 'You Tube' from 26/2/2013.  The Petitioner had not
chosen to mention what material in the 'You Tube' made him to reach to the
conclusion that the story of the film 'Lingaa' is the same as the story which
he claims to have written.

	45.  The allegation of the Petitioner is that the Respondents
(including himself) had clandestinely stolen the Petitioner's story from 'You
Tube' and posted in the website on 2/5/2014 is not only false but also
mischievous.  The story line of the picture 'Lingaa' was not posted in any
website as stated by the Petitioner not has it been published anywhere so far
by any of the Respondents 7, 10 and 11 or himself.

	46.  He is not concerned with the production or release of the
Petitioner's proposed film and take very strong objections to the phrase
'stolen story' used by the Petitioner in paragraph 7 of his affidavit.  The
date of release of picture 'Lingaa' is very much a matter only within the
knowledge of the Producer and Director of the said film.  This Respondent has
no say on it.  He does not know whether it is scheduled to be released during
Pongal 2015 or earlier or later.  In regard to the averment that the
allegedly stolen story was reproduced in 'Kungumam  magazine' dated
19/5/2014, it is submitted that the story of 'Lingaa' has not been reproduced
in that magazine.  There was an article in that Magazine dated 19/5/2014
written by the Reporters of that Magazine in which they had stated that Penny
Quick's life would be a background of 'Lingaa' and the hero would be an
Engineer who constructs a Dam and protects it from anti-social elements.
More than that noting is stated about the story of 'Lingaa'.  Even assuming
that such statements could be correct, no one can claim copy right over Penny
Quick's life or the theme of a hero constructing a dam and protecting it
from anti-social elements.  The concept of a story, qua an intellectual
property is something wider and would not apply to mere themes and historic
facts like what is stated above.

	47.  In the Article in 'Kumudam' magazine dated 6/8/2014, it is stated
that the story of 'Lingaa' has a historical background, comprising the events
that happened in the year 1895.  It also says that the hero of the film does
the role of Penny Quick.  Thus, it is clear that people including the press
Reporters keep guessing about  the story of 'Lingaa' and the said story has
not been officially published anywhere so far.  Though his story was taken up
by the Director of the film for this project, he had given a new shape and
added elements to his life and he himself cannot say with certainty what
would be the story of 'Lingaa' without watching its release version.  It is
equally true that the Petitioner has not reproduced his alleged story in the
affidavit, in the typed set or anywhere else.

	48.  Further, reading the Petitioner's affidavit, he browsed 'You Tube'
and saw what the Petitioner had uploaded therein sometime in February 2013 on
'Mullai Vanam 999'.  In that the Petitioner states that the story concerns
with Mullai Periyar Dam and how the people of six Districts in Tamil Nadu
unitedly fight for their rights over the said Dam.  It also contains
statement of certain artiste that the story involves  love  between  a  Tamil
Boy  and  Kerala Girl.  As such, the

Petitioner has not published any story at all, any where, at any point of
time.

	49.  He had registered his story under the title 'King Khan' with South
Indian Film Writers' Association a registered Trade Body on 15/12/2010 itself
under Registration No.02593-M.N.735.  The Registration Certificate issued to
him by the said Trade Body shows that his script in English was written on 26
pages.  The said script was submitted by him in duplicate to the Trade Body.
One copy was kept in a pasted cover which was sealed by the said Trade Body
and returned to him.  The other copy was submitted in open format and the
same was signed and sealed on every page by the said Trade Body and returned
to him as such.  Every page also contains his signature.

	50.  Moreover, he had submitted the sealed cover and xerox copy of the
script in Open Format to the Director of the film 'Lingaa' when the said
Director and the Producers purchased his story for their film with his full
permission to adapt the same with any modification, addition and omission as
they may  deem fit for their film.  He had submitted the original
Registration Card issued to him by the said Trade Body to the Director of the
film 'Lingaa'.  Since he is bound by a covenant of confidentiality, he is
constrained not to reveal the said story in public domain.  However, if this
Court directs, he shall submit a confidential synopsis of his story in a
sealed cover for the scrutiny of this Court.

	51.  He is advised to submit that no averment in the affidavit nor any
averment in the letter dated 1/11/2014  of the Petitioner said to have been
written by him to the Director General of Police and 11 others attracts any
of the provisions of Law cited in paragraph 8 of his affidavit.

	52.  He never received a copy of any complaint that the Petitioner
claims to have made and he specifically denies that he received a copy of the
letter dated 1/11/2014 addressed to 12 persons including himself from the
Petitioner.  This is not a case where the Petitioner has made a demand on any
statutory or public authority demanding discharge of a legal duty.  Also, he
himself not sure of his rights or what duty he seeks to enforce through which
Authority by way of the present Writ of Mandamus from this Court.  As a
matter of fact, the Petitioner cannot claim copy right in an unpublished
work.  The statements in 'You Tube' do not constitute publication of his
story.  Even without knowing or attempting to know the exact story line of
the picture 'Lingaa', the Petitioner has ventured to file the present Writ
Petition  on mere guess and surmises only with an intention to  gain undue
publicity for himself, etc.  Further, inordinate and unexplained delay in the
Petitioner filing the Writ Petition at this eleventh hour disentitles him
from maintaining the present Writ Petition because he had stated in paragraph
5 of his affidavit that on 2/5/2014 itself, he browsed the 'You Tube' and
found the story of 'Lingaa'.

	53.  THE GERMANE FACTS OF THE CONTENTS OF THE COUNTER OF TENTH
RESPONDENT:  The Petitioner is basing his entire false claim on a free flimsy
thread that the story of the film 'Lingaa' and his story are both based on
Mullai Periyar Dam.  Except for the official teasers and trailers, nothing
about or related to 'Lingaa' has been published or caused to be published
anywhere by any any of the Respondents 7, 8, 10 and 11.  Thus, it is not
clear as to how the Petitioner came to the conclusion that the story of the
film 'Lingaa' is the same as the story which he claims to have written.

	54.  The Petitioner has not published the story anywhere till date.  In
fact, even by his own admission, he has not yet commenced production of his
alleged film based on his alleged story.  His claim that the entire story was
uploaded in 'You Tube' on 24/2/2013 itself is misleading since all that the
'You Tube' clipping reveals which this Respondent has come to learn upon
browsing, is that his story concerns Mullai Periyar Dam and how people of six
Districts in Tamil Nadu unitedly fight for their rights over the said Dam.
It also contains a statement by certain artiste that the story involves the
love affair between a Tamil Boy and a Kerala Girl.  Such sketchy reports on
the general theme cannot amount to telling a story.

	55.  The allegation that the Respondents including himself had
clandestinely stolen the Petitioner's story from 'You Tube' and posted it in
that website on 2/5/2014 is not only false but also mischievous.  It is once
again denied that the story of 'Lingaa'  was ever published anywhere let
alone posted in 'You Tube' on 2/5/2014 or published in 'Kungumam Magazine'
dated 19/5/2014.  Further, no one can claim copy right over the Penny Quick's
life or theme of a hero constructing a dam and protecting it from anti-social
elements.  The concept of a story, qua an intellectual property is something
wider would not apply to mere themes and historic facts like what is stated
above.

	56.  The public, including the Press would keep guessing about the
story of 'Lingaa'.  Though the basic story line of the Eighth Respondent has
been taken for this film, the screenplay has been done by this Respondent and
several other original elements have been added to it.  Further, the
Petitioner has also not reproduced his alleged story in the affidavit in the
typed set or anywhere else.  It is beyond one's common sense as to how the
Petitioner has come to the conclusion that the story of 'Lingaa' is allegedly
same as his story.

	57.  The Eighth Respondent had registered his story under the title
'King Khan' with South Indian Film Writers' Association, a registered Trade
Body on 15/12/2010 itself under Registration No.02593-M.N.735 and has handed
over to the Sixth Respondent the original Registration Certificate issued by
the said Trade Body.  Further, he had also handed over to him the sealed
cover containing the script as submitted to the said Trade Body bearing their
authentication along with a Xerox Copy of the script bearing the seal and
signature of the said Trade Body and the story writer, the Eighth Respondent.

	58.  Also that no averment in the affidavit nor any averment in the
letter dated 1/11/2014 said to have been written by the Petitioner to the
Director General of Tamil Nadu, Police Department and 11 others attracts any
of the provisions of Law cited in paragraph 8 of the Petitioner's affidavit.
He further denies having received a copy of the alleged letter dated
1/11/2014 of the Petitioner addressed to 12 persons including himself.

	59.  This is not a case where the Petitioner has made a demand on any
statutory or public authority demanding discharge of a legal duty.  The
Petitioner himself is not sure of his rights or what duty he seeks to enforce
through which Authority by way of the present Writ of Mandamus.   On the
basis of affidavit and the typed set of papers filed, this is a fit case to
be dismissed in liminie as not maintainable.

	60.  Further, the Petitioner cannot claim copyright in an unpublished
work.  The statements in 'You Tube' do not constitute publication of story.
Even without knowing or attempting to know the exact story line of the
picture 'Lingaa' the Petitioner has ventured to file the present Writ
Petition on a mere guess and surmises only with an intention to gain undue
publicity for himself and hold the Respondents to ransom and make illegal
gain out of it.  Also, he has filed the present Writ Petition with an
inordinate and unexplained delay at this eleventh hour which disentitles him
from maintaining the present Writ Petition especially as per paragraph 5 of
his affidavit on 2/5/2014 itself, he found the story of 'Lingaa' while
browsing 'You Tube'.

	61.  There is no prayer against the present Respondent or any of the
persons actually concerned with 'Lingaa' viz., the Respondents 7, 10 and 11.
Thus, the whole claim is not only false but also frivolous and vexatious and
the same is filed with total non-application of mind.

	62.  Besides the above, it is submitted that the film 'Lingaa' has been
produced with huge investment of several crores of rupees and is tentatively
scheduled for release on 12/12/2014.  This Respondent is a reputed Director
in the film world having given several hit films like Padayappa, Muthu, Avvai
Shanmugi, Dasavatharam, Tenali etc and only with the intent to spoil his
reputation, this flimsy and vexatious petition has been filed.  Hence the
Writ Petition is to be dismissed with exemplary  costs.

	63.  THE PETITIONER'S CONTENTIONS:-  The Learned Counsel for the
Petitioner submits that the Petitioner's entire story 'Mullai Vanam 999' was
uploaded by him in 'You Tube' a social website on 24/2/2013 itself and that
it was telecasted on 26/2/2013 in  channels like Ottran Seithi, Sun Network,
Kalaingnar Network, Raj Network, Jaya Network, Mega T.V and Vasanth T.V and
further, from 26/2/2013 onwards 'You Tube' floated the same in public domain.

		64.  The Learned Counsel for the Petitioner contends that the
Petitioner gave a complaint to the Respondents 1 to 3 on 1/11/2014 and he
went to Cyber Crime Wing of Madurai City Police, working under the Third
Respondent, who informed the Petitioner to approach the Third Respondent.
Hence the Petitioner made a complaint on 1/11/2014 which was forwarded to
Tallakulam Police Station on 6/11/2014 and in fact, the very forwarding of
Petitioner's complaint to the said Tallakulam Police Station is with a
motive.  Moreover, the Third Respondent had purposely forwarded the
Petitioner's complaint to an irrelevant Department (Tallakulam Police
Station) and they have no source for investigation.

	65.  The Learned Counsel for the Petitioner proceeds to submit that
since no action was taken in the matter, he filed the present Writ Petition
before this Court.

	66.  The Learned Counsel for the Petitioner would state that on
16/11/2014, the music release ceremony of 'Lingaa' was held at Sathiyam
Multiplex, Chennai and further, when notice had come from this Court, the
Trailer of 'Lingaa' for five minutes was released and this itself is a
robbery and a contemptuous act.  Also that, it is represented on behalf of
the Petitioner that 'Lingaa' was registered by the Director Ameer five years
ago at the Name Registering Association, Chennai and 'Lingaa' name was taken
by undue influence.

	67.  The Learned Counsel for the Petitioner contends that on 24/2/2013
at 10.00 a.m., the film feature Pooja for Petitioners 'Mullai Vanam 999' was
celebrated at AVM Studios which was presided over by several V.I.Ps etc., and
the shooting for Petitioner's new film is to be shot from January 2015
onwards, both indoors and outdoors and also that pre-shooting initiations
were conducted in and around Theni to Madurai Districts and Kerala for the
past ten months while staying at Theni International Guest House along with
the Producers, Artistes, Cameramen and other off-screen Technicians.

	68.  The Learned Counsel for the Petitioner submits that the
Petitioner's feature film 'Mullai Vanam 999' is to be produced at the cost of
Rs.3,31,20,000/- and the same expected to fetch a commercial gain of Rs.15
crores through his dream story and screenplay.  Whereas the Respondents  7,
8, 10 and 11  are  shooting  the feature film 'Lingaa' at a lightening speed
both in Mysore, Kerala and Tamil Nadu with the stolen story of the
Petitioner.

	69.  The Learned Counsel for the Petitioner projects an argument that
to the Petitioner's shock and surprise, on 2/5/2014, while browsing 'You
Tube', his story was appearing in the film named 'Lingaa' as if produced by
the Seventh Respondent, directed by the Tenth Respondent, story by the Eighth
Respondent and to be acted and distributed by the Eleventh Respondent and
these aforesaid Respondents had clandestinely stolen the Petitioner's story
from 'You Tube' and posted the same on 2/5/2014 whereas the very same story
was floated in the name of 'Mullai Vanam 999' by the Petitioner as early as
24/2/2013.

	70.  The Learned Counsel for the Petitioner submits that the Petitioner
has invested 47 years of labour in the film industry and for the first time,
his story of 'Mullai Vanam 999' is to be released during Tamil New Year's Day
(Chithirai 2015) whereas his maiden stolen story is to be released during
Pongal 2015 by the Respondents 7, 8, 10 and 11 which would bring his entire
future into the dark gallows.  Also that in 'Kungukam Magazine' dated
19/5/2014, the stolen story has been reproduced through the auspices of the
Respondents 7, 8, 10 and 11.

	71.  The Learned Counsel for the Petitioner submits that the
Petitioner's intellectual property from 'You Tube' has been stolen by the
Respondents 7, 8, 10 and 11 for gaining illegally and thereby bringing loss
to the Petitioner.

	72.  The Learned Counsel for the Petitioner contends that although the
Petitioner had preferred the complaint before the Respondents 1 to 6 on
1/11/2014 mentioning all the offences committed by the Respondents 7, 8,10
and 11, so far no First Information Report has been registered either by the
Cyber Crime or by any other authority.

	73.  Proceeding further, the Learned Counsel for the Petitioner submits
that in paragraph No.11 of the counter affidavit filed by the Eighth
Respondent, it was stated that the story titled 'King Khan' was registered by
him on 15/12/2010 itself and the same is the film 'Linga' story line.

	74.  In this regard, the Learned Counsel for the Petitioner contends
that after receipt of notice from this Court, as an after thought, the
aforesaid averment is being made to counter the uplinking of 'Mullai Vanam
999' in 'You Tube' on 26/2/2013.   Moreover, the film 'King Khan' was
released in Hindi during 2011 itself and it has nothing to do with Mullai
Periyar or Colonel John Penny Quick and that the contesting Respondents are
trying to dupe this Court by filing a certificate of another story only to
show that it was registered on 15/12/2010, well before the  date of floating
'Mullai Vanam 999' in the 'You Tube' on 26/2/2013 as a false counter blast.

	75.  It is represented on behalf of the Petitioner the film 'Lingaa'
with a budget of Rs.300 crores was sold for Rs.600 crores.

	76.  The Learned Counsel for the Petitioner submits that the counter of
Eleventh Respondent mentions that no other Distributor has not been impleaded
and the same is true because of the reason that his daughter is a 36% share
holder in Eros International which is nothing but a benami distributor for
Eleventh Respondent and they were not impleaded as Distributors, so as not to
bring the family members of Eleventh Respondent into Court proceedings.  Also
that the stolen film 'Lingaa'  the Japanese distribution rights has also been
taken by the daughter of Eleventh Respondent through Eros International
Distribution Company.

	77.  The Learned Counsel for the Petitioner contends that the
Petitioner is a poor Director belonging to Arundadiar Community and with
great difficulty, struggling to enter into the giant screen from the small
screen through the maiden film 'Mullai Vanam 999'.  The entire career, future
and life is resting upon the stolen story of 'Lingaa' and as such this Court
may save all 47 years of the Petitioner's life and save 'Mullai Vanam 999'
story line from the hands of the Respondents and their stolen feature film
'Lingaa'.

	78.  THE SUBMISSIONS OF THE RESPONDENTS 1, 3 AND 5:-  	The Learned
Additional Government Pleader for the Respondents 1 to 3 and 5 submits that
the Respondents 1 to 3 have no power to conduct Fact Finding Committee at all
and there is no provision for an Investigating Agency to appoint a Fact
Finding Committee and as such, the prayer sought for in the Writ Petition in
this regard cannot be considered.  Further, it is represented that the
representation of the Petitioner was sent on 5/11/2014 through 'Registered
Post' and the Third Respondent received the same on 6/11/2014 and in fact,
the Third Respondent forwarded the same to the Assistant Commissioner of
Police, Tallakulam for enquiry on 8/11/2014 and he forwarded the same to the
Inspector of Police, Tallakulam for an enquiry and that the Inspector of
Police, Tallakulam, conducted an enquiry on 13/11/2014 and he called the
Petitioner/Complainant and that the Petitioner/Complainant had informed the
Investigating Officer that he wanted time till 20/11/2014 since he had urgent
work at Chennai.

	79.  Also that on 20/11/2014, the complainant appeared before the
Inspector of Police and gave a statement that he is directing a film in the
name of 'Mullai Vanam 999' and produced the invitation and photographs on the
opening ceremony of the said film and also that according to him, his film is
based on Mullai Periyar Dam and Colonel John Penny Quick and further that
Pooja for his film was held on 24/2/2013 at A.V.M. Studios and in that
function, several VIPs had participated and that the events of Pooja held on
24/2/2013 were telecasted in 'You Tube' and other channels.

	80.  The Learned Additional Advocate General for the Respondents 1, 3
and 5 proceeds to contend that the Petitioner was denying the preparatory
work for the film and intended to commence shooting from January 2014 and
also that the Petitioner saw an article published in 'Kumudham weekly' dated
6/8/2014 and 'Kungumam weekly' on 19/5/2014 and he suspected the story line
of film 'Lingaa' produced by the Seventh Respondent is similar to that of his
film 'Mullai Vanam 999' and requested to stay the exhibition of film 'Lingaa'
in the representation/Petition dated 1/11/2014.	

	81.  That apart, the Learned Additional Advocate General brings it to
the notice of this Court that both the Petitioner and the concerned
Respondent were examined and in fact, both of them had not submitted their
story either 'Mullai Vanam 999' or 'Lingaa'.  Further, when there are no
materials and when materials were not supplied by the concerned parties, it
is not possible for the Investigating Officer to conduct the investigation.

	82.  THE CONTENTIONS ON THE SIDE OF THE RESPONDENTS 4 AND 6:-  The
Learned Assistant Solicitor General of India for the Respondents 4 and 6
contends that the affidavit filed by the Petitioner in the Writ Petition is
not in proper format and nothing is made out and that the Writ Affidavit is
not as per Rules framed by this Court.

	83.  It is the further submission of the Learned Assistant Solicitor
General of India for the Respondents 4 and 6 that the public Law remedy is
not available to the Petitioner and infact, the Petitioner's grievance is a
private one and that a Civil Suit will lie and in fact, the Writ Petition
will not lie.

	84.  THE SUBMISSIONS OF THE RESPONDENTS 8 AND 10:-  The Learned Counsel
for the Respondents 8 and 10 submits that the film 'Lingaa' (child) is not
yet born and only when it is certified by the Central Board of Film
Certification, then one will know what the film it is and even some changes
may be made at the instance of the Film Certification Board.  Therefore, it
is premature and it is duly certified and a proper certificate is issued and
made available for public nothing can be said in the subject matter in issue.
In effect, the plea taken on behalf of the Respondents 8 and 10 is the film
'Lingaa' is in the making and not given it for Censor Board.

	85.  The Learned Counsel for the Petitioner contends that the relief
prayed for by the Petitioner in the Writ Petition is in the nature of
Mandamus by directing the Respondents 1 to 6 to act upon his representation
dated 1/11/2014 by  conducting a detailed enquiry after appointing a Fact
Finding Committee, etc., and in this regard to claim a relief of Mandamus,

	(i).  There must be an enforceable legal duty and
	(ii).  The infringement of such duty by a Public Authority.

Also that, what is the legal duty i.e., sought to be enforced as seen from
the affidavit filed in the Writ Petition by the Petitioner?  It is still a
mere confusing omni bus prayer/relief and in fact, the present Writ is an
abuse of process of Law.

	86.  That apart, the Learned Counsel for the Respondents 8 and 10
contends that the representation dated 1/11/2014 of the Petitioner is
addressed to twelve persons and the Respondents 1, 2, 7 are Police Officers
and the Respondents 3 and 4 are Government Officers (R.3 is a Central
Government Officer and R.4 is the State Government Officer) and the
Respondents 5 and 6 are statutory authorities under the Cinema Autograph Act
and in short, out of twelve Respondents, Seven are Public Officers.  Further,
the balance of Five persons are private individuals and in reality, the
Petitioner has omitted to include Central Board of Film Certificate's Vice
Chairman and the Regional Officer in the Writ Petition.  However, the
Petitioner has included the Sixth Respondent.

	87.  Besides the above, the Learned Counsel for the Respondents 8 and
10 submits that the representation of the Petitioner dated 1/11/2014 is not
only addressed to the Public Authorities but also to the Police Officers as a
complaint and as such, the said representation is a mixture of both.  In
short, the Petitioner has not spelt out a legal duty in his representation
dated 1/11/2014.  Moreover, he is dictating what should be done and the
prayer in the Writ Petition has two elements.

	88.  The Learned Counsel for the Petitioner contends that the
Petitioner in his representation dated 1/11/2014 prays for stopping of the
release of 'Lingaa' and to grant him protection.  Also, he wants his
representation dated 1/11/2014 to be registered as Firtst Information Report
and to conduct enquiry.

	89.  The Learned Counsel for the Respondents 8 and 10 refers to
definition Section 2 (k) of the Information Technology Act, 2000 which speaks
of 'Computer Resource' means Computer, Computer System, Computer Network,
Data, Computer database or software' and Section 2 (h) (a) of the Information
and Technology Act, 2000 which deals with the 'Communication Device'  meaning
cell phones, personal digital assistance or combination of both or any other
device used to communicate, send or transmit any text, video, audio or image'
and in the present Writ Petition, the averment of the Petitioner is that the
story of 'Lingaa' has been stolen by the Respondents 7, 8, 10 and 11 and if
that is so, it is not a Cyber Crime and it will be an infringement of Copy
Right.

	90.  The Learned Counsel for the Respondents 8 and 10 submits that
Section 66 (E) of the Information Technology Act, 2000 deals with 'Punishment
for Violation of Privacy' and this Section cannot be pressed into service by
the Petitioner.  Also that Section 72 of the Information Technology Act, 2000
speaks of 'Penalty for breach of Confidentiality and Privacy'  and in fact,
there is no contract between the Petitioner and the Respondents 8 and 10.
Section 76 of the Information Technology Act, 2000 speaks of 'Confiscation'
and Section 77 deals with 'Compensation, Penalties or confiscation  not to
interfere with other punishment'.  In short, there is no transaction between
the  Petitioner  and the Respondents 8 and 10 and further,
none of the Indian Penal Code Sections remotely attract to the facts of the
present case.

	91.  The Learned Counsel for the Respondents 8 and 10 submits that in
terms of ingredients of Section 154 of Code of Criminal  Procedure, complaint
must be given to the Jurisdictional Police and as per Section 154 (3) of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, the Petitioner can address to the Superior Police
Officer.  Besides these, in the representation of the Petitioner dated
1/11/2014, statements or in the Writ affidavit, there is no
statement/averment that the representation was first given to the
Jurisdictional Police.  In fact, the Petitioner's representation dated
1/11/2014 was despatched on 5/11/2014 and the Writ Petition was filed on
11/11/2014. In regard to the stand of the Petitioner that he came to know
about 'Lingaa' Story from 'Kungumam' and 'Kumudham' magazines.

	92.  The Learned Counsel for the Respondents 8 and 10 contends that
from the reading of these materials, no one can say 'what is their story' and
in fact, the Reporters have stated about their picture that the Seventh
Respondent is the Producer, Eighth Respondent is the Story Writer and the
Tenth Respondent is the Director.

	93.  The Learned Counsel for the Respondents 8 to 10 contends that in
the write ups of the said Magazines, nothing is stated as to what is the
story and in fact, in the write up of Kungumam dated 1/5/2014, it is
mentioned as 'bgd;dp fptpf;  fijBa 'ypA;fhtpd; moehjkhf  nUf;Fk;
vd;fpwhh;fs'; and the same is only a 'guess'.

	94.  The Leanred Counsel for the Respondents 8 and 10 by referring to
paragraph 2 of the write up in 'Kumudham magazine' vide page No.13 of the
typed set of papers and submits that the story 'Lingaa' is produced based on
historical background of the period 1895 and beyond that nothing is stated.
Further more, the Petitioner had not stated in the Writ Petition as to what
he had uploaded and further, the Petitioner has not published any story at
all and the averment in the additional affidavit would not amount to story
and in fact, a mere theme cannot be a story.

	95.  The Learned Counsel for the Respondents 8 and 10 brings it to the
notice of this Court that now-a-days, the  life of the film is only for two
weeks and in those days, there would be set theatres where some films will
run for 100 days.  But, now, thousand prints are taken and in multiflex
theatres, 20 shows are shown and 1000 exhibitions are made within a week.

	96.  The Learned Counsel for the Respondents 8 and 10 cites the order
of this Court dated 25/1/2012 in O.A.Nos.917 and 918 of 2011 in C.S.No.756 of
2011, wherein in paragraph Nos.28 to 31, it is observed and held as follows:-

	"28.  On consideration, I find that the applicant has failed to make
out a case for grant of interim injunction.  The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the
case of R.G.ANAND Vs. M/s. DELUX FILMS (AIR 1978 SC ? 1613), was pleased to
lay down the following proposition of law:-

	"46. Thus, on a careful consideration and elucidation of the various
authorities and the case law on the subject discussed above, the following
propositions emerge:

	1. There can be no copyright in an idea, subject matter, themes, plots
or historical or legendary facts and violation of the copyright in such cases
is confined to the form, manner and arrangement and expression of the idea by
the author of the copyright work.

	2. Where the same idea is being developed in a different manner, it is
manifest that the source being common, similarities are bound to occur. In
such a case the courts should determine whether or not the similarities are
on fundamental or substantial aspects of the mode of expression adopted in
the copyrighted work. If the defendants work is nothing but a literal
imitation of the copyrighted work with some variations here and there it
would amount to violation of the copyright. In other words, in order to be
actionable the copy must be a substantial and material one which at once
leads to the conclusion that the defendant is guilty of an act of piracy.
	3. One of the surest and the safest test to determine whether or not
there has been a violation of copyright is to seeing the reader, spectator or
the viewer after having read or seen both the works is clearly of the opinion
and gets an unmistakable impression that the subsequent work appears to be a
copy of the original.
	4. Where the theme is the same but is presented and treated differently
so that the subsequent work becomes a completely new work, no question of
violation of copyright arises.

	5.Where however apart from the similarities appearing in the two works
there are also material and broad dissimilarities which negative the
intention to copy the original and the coincidences appearing in the two
works are clearly incidental no infringement of the copyright comes into
existence.

	6. As a violation of copyright amounts to an act of piracy it must be
proved by clear and cogent evidence after applying the various tests laid
down by the case law discussed above.

	7. Where however the question is of the violation of the copyright of
stage play by a film producer or a Director the task of the plaintiff becomes
more difficult to prove piracy. It is manifest that unlike a stage play a
film has a much broader prospective, a wider field and a bigger background
where the defendants can by introducing a variety of incidents give a colour
and complexion different from the manner in which the copyrighted work has
expressed the idea. Even so, if the viewer after seeing the film gets a
totality of impression that the film is by and large a copy of the original
play, violation of the copyright may be said to be proved.

29.  When the facts of this case is considered in the light of authoritative
pronoucement by the Hon'ble Supreme Court, it is to be held that the
applicant cannot claim copyright of idea.  In an idea, subject matter,
themes, plots or historical or legendary facts and violation of the copyright
in such case is confined to the form, manner and arrangement and expression
of idea, whch is not the case here.   The pleaded case and argument raised
shows that it is the same idea, which was developed, therefore, some
similarities cannot make out a case of violation of copyright.

	30.  In order to succed, it was for the plaintiff/applicant to show
that the spectator or the viewer get an unmistakable impression that the
subsequent work appears to be a copy of the original, which is not the case
either pleaded or proved.  In this case, admittedly besides similarities,
there is also material and broad dissimilarities, which prima facie shows
that there is no infringement of copy right, therefore, suit filed by the
applicant/plaintiff prima facie does not show infringement of copy right.

	31.  Consequently, no other conclusion than the one that the
applicant/plaintiff has failed to make out prima facie case, can be arrived
at.  The applicant/plaintiff, in the event of success finally, can always
claim damages, therefore, the balance of convenience is certainly in favour
of the defendants/non-applicants, as he has already produced the film and is
ready for release."

	97.  He also relies on the order of this Court dated 26/9/2012 in
O.A.No.790 of 2012 in C.S.No.620 of 2012 in paragraph 24, it is held as
under:-

	"After careful consideration of the respective contentions and the
legal authorities produced, this Court is of the view that it is not a fit
case where injunction can be granted.  The defence taken by the respondents
cannot be said to be wholly irrelevant.  In any event, it requires a full
trial of the case on hand.  It is unnecessary to give a finding on each of
the contentions as it will prejudice the refular trial.  It is suffice that
some of the applicant's original stand have been controverted in the counter
affidavit supported by two supporting affidavits.  Merely because the story
of the respondents having similarities which will not automatically result in
believing the applicant's assertion.  In view of the above, a regular trial
has to be done in this case.  In case, the applicant succeeds, he can always
seek for quantified damages for the alleged loss of infringement."
	98.  THE CONTENTIONS OF THE RESPONDENTS 7 AND 11:-  The Learned Counsel
for the Respondents 7 and 11 informs this Court that he adopts the argument
advanced by the Learned Counsel for the Respondents 8 and 10 and further,
advances the following contentions.

	99.  The Learned Counsel for the Respondents 7 and 11 contends that for
violation of Copy Right, the Writ Petition filed by the Writ Petitioner is
not maintainable before this Court.  Further, the Petitioner in the present
Writ Petition has not established that he has a copyright in the subject
matter in issue.  In fact, the allegations levelled by the Petitioner against
the Eleventh Respondent are scandalous and in fact, the Eleventh Respondent
is arrayed as a party by the Petitioner with a view to make an illegal gain
besides to tarnish the Eleventh Respondent's image.

	100.  The Learned Counsel for the Respondents 7 and 11 submits that the
Petitioner  has made a bald allegation in his written argument that one of
the daughters of the Eleventh Respondent is a 36% shareholder in Eros
International and in fact, that legal entity is not a party to the present
Writ Petition.

	101.  The Learned Counsel for the Respondents 7 and 11 contends that
the Petitioner can approach the Jurisdiction under Section 482 of Cr.P.C.
Further, it is the submission of the Learned Counsel for the Respondents 7
and 11 that the Petitioner, as on date does not have any Copy Right and
further, he has not spent a single money on production and in fact, the
production of 'Lingaa' is completed and other works are going on and in fact,
before the Police, he sought time till 20/11/2014 and approaches this Court
on 11/11/2014 by filing the present Writ Petition.

	102.  The Learned Counsel for the Respondents 7 and 11 contends that
the Petitioner has come to this Court with unclean hands and in fact, there
can be no copy right in respect of idea, subject matter, themes, plots or
historical or legendary facts and in short, the Petitioner has not fulfilled
any one of the criterias mentioned in paragraph 46 of the Judgment in the
decision AIR 1978 SC ? 1613 R.G.ANAND V. DELUX FILMS AND ORS and as such,
there is no question of violation of Copy Right in the present case on hand.

	103.  In this connection, the Learned Counsel for the Petitioner cites
the Division Bench Judgment of this Court dated 22/8/2007 in O.S.A.No.126 of
2007 between S.SENTHIL KUMAR V. Mr.KAMALAHASAN AND ANOTHER, wherein in
paragraph No.11, it is observed as follows:-

	"In R.G.Anand V. Delux Films {(1978) 4 SCC 118}, the Supreme Court has
laid down the following guidances in paragraphs 45 and 46 and we extract
those guidances which are relevant for the purpose of the present case:-

	"Thus, the position appears to be that an idea, principle, theme or
subject-matter or historical or legendary facts being common property cannot
be the subject-matter of copyright of a particular person.  It is always open
to any person to choose an idea as a subject-matter and develop it in his own
manner and give expression to the idea by treating it differently from others
...

	.... Thus, the fundamental fact which has to be determined where a
charge of violation of the copyright is made by the plaintiff against the
defendant is to determine whether or not the defendant not onl adopted the
idea of the copyrighted work but has also adopted the manner, arrangement,
situation to situation, scene to scene with minor changes or super additions
or embellishment here and there ...

	Care, however, must be taken to see whether the defendant has merel
disguised piracy or has actually reproduced the original in a different form,
different tone, different tenor so as to infuse a new life into the idea of
the copyrighted work adapted by him.  In the latter case there is no
violation of the copyright.

	... In other words, in order to be actionable the copy must be a
substantial and material one which at once leads to the conclusion that the
defendant is guilty of an act of piracy.  One of the surest and safest tests
to determine whether or not there has been a violation of copyright is to see
if the reader, spectator or viewer after having read or seen both the works
is clearly of the opinion and gets an unmistakable impression that the
subsequent work appears to be a copy of the original.  Where the theme is the
same but is presented and treated differently so that the subsequent work
becomes a completely new work, no question of violation of copyright arises.

	As a violation of copyright amounts to an act of piracy it must be
proved by clear and cogent evidence...."

	104.  He also seeks in aid of the order dated 20/6/2014 between MANSOOB
HAIDER V. YASHRAJ FILM PVT. LTD reported in Manu/MH/0790/2014 (equivalent
citations 2014 (59) PTC 292 (Bom) wherein in paragraph Nos.36 to 40, it is
observed and held as follows:-

	"36.  Mr.Kadam refers to the decision of the Chancery Division in
Francis Day & Hunter Limited & Anr. vs. Bron & Anr. 1963 (1) Chancery 587 in
which the Court said that the question of fact of whether or not there is an
infringement of copyright must be taken in two stages, the first objective
and the second objective.  The objective question of fact, one that depends
to a very great extent on the perception of the Court and on the evidence
before it, is an assessment of whether there is a substantial similarity
between the two works.  The subjective test is blunter.  It assesses whether
any ordinary person on considering the two works would inevitably come to
one, and only one conclusion, viz., that the allegedly offending work is a
copy of the plaintifs.

	37.  The test Mr.Kadam and Mr.Dhond suggest is one that is singularly
appealing.  It is a test that is drawn from the law as settlled in
R.G.Anand's case and reflected too in the two decisions of the United States
Court cited by Mr.Dhond.  The test is this: if we remove all scenes to which
no originally attaches, such as all scenes, a faire then are the two works
still substantially similar, and has the subsequent work copied substantial
part of the earlier work?  Indeed, if this is applied to the elements carved
out by Mr.Modi in his submissions, very likely the entire suit would fail.

	38.  There are, therefore, three crucial questions or legal tests in
cases like this:

	(a).  Has the plaintiff proved that the defendant had access to his
work?

	(b).  On considering the two works, would an ordinary person inevitably
conclude that the defendant had copied the plaintiff's work? (the subjective
or intrinsic test); and

	(c).  Is there a substantial and material overlapping or commonality of
the origianl elements in the plaintiff's work?

	39.  Even if a plaintiff fails on the first question, he may yet
succeed on the second and third questions.  But if he fails on the second
question also, then I do not see how he can possibly succeed on the third
alone.  But that may arise in another matter.  In this case, in my view, the
present plaintiff fails on all three counts.  Indeed, his case is not even
based on the second question, but only on the first and his own variation of
the third; that Defendant Nos.1 to 3 had access and that there are common
elements, even if these are not shown to be entirely unique and some of which
are later given up as being original (the magic trick) or demonstrated to be
untrue (being set in a foreign locale).  The plaintiffs variation on the
third question is a sort of reductio ad absurdum; a vivisection of individual
elements, a false and misleading juxtaposition of these, and, on that basis,
to 'cound up the usual suspects' and invite a finding of infringement.  If
these elements, however and wherever placed, are in support of an entirely
different premise and story line, there can be no copying, no piracy and no
infringement.

	G. Conclusions

	40.  In my view, there is no case whatsoever made out for the grant of
interim relief.  The Plaintiff has not made out a prima-facie case.  I am not
conviced that the plaintiff has even been able to demonstrate that his work
was given to, let alone seen, by the 1st defendant or any of its employees,
officers or principal personnel.  The two works are entirely different, each
original in its own way.  The film Dhoom 3 is not and cannot possibly be said
to be a copy of the plaintiff's work once.  The material propositions and
premise of the two works are entirely dissimilar.  The mere use in both of
certain well established and commonly used motifs, themes or elements or even
the perhaps co-incidental placing of these in a certain juxtaposition gives
the plaintiff no rights against the rival work."

	105.  He invites the attention of this Court to the decision of the
Honourable Supreme Court R.G.ANAND Vs. DELUX FILMS and ORS (AIR 1978 SC ?
1613), wherein it is observed that there can be no copy right subsists in
idea of the subject matter, themes, plots, legendary facts, etc.

	106.  That apart, in the aforesaid Judgment, it is also observed that

	"Where the theme is the same but the same is presented and treated
differently, so that the subsequent work becomes a complete new work, no
question of violation of copy right arises."

	107.  Moreover, the Learned Counsel for the Respondents 7 and 11 laid
emphasis on the observation made by the Honourable Supreme Court in the
aforesaid decision in paragraph 52 (5) wherein it is mentioned as follows:-

	"Where however apart from the similarities appearing in the two works
there are also material and broad dissimilarities which negative the
intention to copy the original and the coincidences appearing in the two
works are clearly incidental no infringement of the copyright comes into
existence."

	108.  It is the emphatic submission of the Learned Counsel for the
Respondents 7 and 11 that in respect of Legendary facts/subjects of Mullai
Periyar or Colonel J. Penni Quick, they being the common property, they
cannot be the subject matter of Copy Right.  Further, the Petitioner has not
established his Copy Right and Producer of the film 'Lingaa' has spent huge
money and the said movie is almost complete and the balance of convenience is
only lies in favour of the Seventh Respondent/Producer and that apart, later,
the Petitioner can only claim damages at a later point of time, if he
establishes a case for infringement of Copy Right.  As such, the Writ
Petition filed by the Petitioner is a baseless one, which is to be dismissed
with exemplary costs.

	109.  REPLY SUBMISSIONS OF THE PETITIONER:-  By means of reply, the
Learned Counsel for the Petitioner contends that the Respondents have not
stated that they have not stolen the story of the Petitioner and
technicalities will never arise in the present case and in fact, the
Petitioner's maiden story 'Mullai Vanam 999' (his property) is stolen and the
Petitioner is a rustic Village person and based on the representation of the
Petitioner dated 1/11/2014, no action is taken by the Police and there is no
need for the Petitioner to black mail anyone and that the Petitioner was
called to the Police Station and none was called to the Police Station and
the Petitioner went to the Police Station for number of times and he was sent
back and in fact, the Petitioner is a stream in a desert and with an aching
heart and burnt mind, he has approached this Court.

	110.  It is represented on behalf of some of the contesting Respondents
that Ninth Respondent is not concerned with controversy between the parties.

	111.  ANALYSIS AND CONCLUSIONS:-  At the outset, it is to be pointed
out that the term 'Mandamus' literally means 'we command'.  The Writ of
Mandamus is one issued by the Superior Court to a Lower
Court/Tribunal/Administrative Authority to perform properly a particular
duty.

	112.  Further, the existence of a legal right and infringement of the
same by a Public Authority is a sine qua non for exercise of Jurisdiction to
issue the Writ of Mandamus.  At this stage, this Court aptly points out the
decision of the Honourable Supreme Court in DIRECTOR OF SETTLEMENTS V.
M.R.APPA RAO (2002 4 SCC ? 638), wherein it is held that the powers of the
High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India though
discretionary and though without serious limits must be exercised along with
recognised lines and subject  to certain self-imposed limitations.

	113.  It is to be noted that the object of Article 226 of the
Constitution of India is the enforcement of a 'Fundamental Right' and not the
establishment of a 'Right'.  Also, that a petition under Article 226 of the
Constitution of India canot be converted into a suit.  Added further, Article
226 of the Constitution of India will not be available to a party for
settling private disputes for which the remedies are available under ordinary
Law.  Besides these, the merits of rival claims relating to a property cannot
be investigated under Article 226 of the Constitution of India.  Also, when
the right claimed by the Petitioner hinges upon the determination of
contentious issues/questions which require an elaborate examination of
evidence, then certainly Article 226 of the Constitution of India is not the
appropriate remedy for the Petitioner, in the considered opinion of this
Court.

	114.  It is to be borne in mind that the object of the complaint from
the point of view of informant is to set the criminal Law in motion.  The
object from the point of view of Investigating Officer is to obtain
information of occurrence and to take a suitable step.  Indeed,  the First
Information Report is not a substantive evidence and can be used to
corroborate or contradict the maker and not any other witness, in the
considered opinion of this Court.

	115.  It is to be remembered that the duty of Investigating Officer is
not to bolster up the prosecution case.  The duty of Investigating Officer is
to discover the truth.  The Investigating Officer can collect any evidence
which he considers proper and there cannot be any restriction on the  Police
in this regard.

	116.  One cannot brush aside an important fact that an obligation to
register a case  cannot be confused with a remedy, if the same is not
registered.  The registration of a case does not ipso facto warrant the
setting in motion of an investigation as the same is subject to a discretion
of the Police, subject to Section 157 (1) proviso and Section 157 (2) in case
of cognizable cases and schedule to Section 155 in case of non-cognizable
cases.  As a matter of fact, the investigation of an offence is the field
exclusively reserved for the Police Officers where the powers in that field
are unfettered, so long as the power to investigate into cognizable offences
is legitimately exercised in strict compliance with the  provisions under
Chapter XII of the Code of Criminal Procedure.  Ordinarily, a Writ Court
cannot direct Investigation Agency to carry out investigation in a particular
fashion.  The Police investigation under Cr.P.C., can be commenced only if
the First Information Report discloses commission of a cognizable offence.
Further, in an appropriate case, a Police Officer has a duty to make a
preliminary enquiry, so as to find out whether the allegations have any
substance or not as opined by this Court.  Undoubtedly, the First Information
Report under Section 154 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is a very vital
document.  It is the first information of a cognizable offence recorded  by
the Officer in-charge of a Police Station.  It sets the ball of a Criminal
Law in motion and marks the commencement of the investigation which ends with
the formation of an opinion under Sections 169 or 170 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure and forwarding a Police Report under Section 173 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure.  No wonder, 'locus standi' of the complainant is alien to
Criminal Jurisprudence.  Also, a criminal proceeding is not a proceeding for
vindication of a private grievance.

	117. It is to be pertinently pointed out that Section 66 (B) of the
Information Technology Act, 2000 deals with 'Punishment for dishonestly
receiving stolen computer resource or communication  device'.  There is a
striking similarity between Section 66 (B) of the Information Technology Act,
2000 and Section 411 of the Indian Penal Code, the only variance being a
specific reference to a stolen computer resource or communications device
rather than property.  The ingredients of Section 66 (E) of the Information
Technology Act are similar to several peeping tom legislations most  notably
the video voyeurism Prevention Act, 2004 (18 U.S.C.A. Sec.1801), which is the
federal Law prohibiting voyeurism in United States of America.

	118.  At this stage, this Court relevantly points out that Section 14
of the Copy Right Act, 1957 speaks of 'Meaning of Copy Right'.  Section 16
refers to 'No Copy Right except as provided under the Copy Right Act, 1957'.
It is to be remembered that all endeavour intellectual excellence is so
equally open to who wish to add or to improve upon the material already
collected by others making a original work.  It cannot be gain said that no
homo-sapien can monopolise on a certain subject.  But at the same time, one
should keep in mind that the object under the Copy Right Act, 1957 is to
protect the commercial value of the productive effort of a person's mind and
to secure a fair return to an author for his creative labour.

	119.  That apart, Section 55 of the Copy Right Act, 1957 speaks of
'Civil remedies for infringement of Copy Right'.  Section 6 of the Copy Right
Act, 1911 provides for infringement by way of injunction or interdict damages
etc.  Where a Copy Right in any work is infringed, the owner of a Copy Right
in Law shall be entitled to all such remedies by way of injunction or
interdict damages, accounts and otherwise, as are or may be conferred by Law
for the infringement of a right.  The appropriate remedy for a party in this
regard is to move the competent Civil Court by way of a Civil Suit.

	120.  Section 62 of the Copy Right Act, 1957 deals with Jurisdiction of
Court  over matters under this Chapter'.  Indeed, the District Court having
the jurisdiction where a Civil proceeding can be instituted  by an aggrieved
in regard to a infringement of a Copy Right in any work or the infringement
of any other right conferred by the Copy Right Act and this is an additional
ground for attracting the jurisdiction of a Court over and above the normal
grounds as specified under Section 20 of the Civil Procedure Code, in the
considered opinion of this Court.  Section 63 speaks of 'offence of
infringement of Copy Right or other rights conferred by the Copy Right Act,
etc.

	121.  As far as the present case is concerned, the Petitioner has come
out with a clear stand that he is the owner.  The author of the story, screen
play and direction of 'Mullai Vanam 999' and further that he had uploaded the
entire story in 'You Tube' a social website on 24/2/2013 etc.  Further, on
24/2/2014, at 10.00 a.m., the film feature pooja for his 'Mullai Vanam 999'
was celebrated in AVM studios which was presided over several VIPs etc., and
the shooting for his film is to be shot from January 2014.  To his great
shock and suprise, on 2/5/2014 while browsing 'You Tube' his story had
appeared in the film named 'Lingaa' as if produced by the Seventh Respondent,
Directed by the Tenth Respondent, story by the Eighth Respondent and to be
acted and distributed by the Eleventh Respondent.  In fact, the aforesaid
Respondents had clandestinely stolen his property from 'You Tube' and posted
the same on 2/5/2014, whereas the very same story was floated by him in the
name of 'Mullai Vanam 999' as early as on 24/2/2013 itself.  That apart, his
maiden property/story from the 'You Tube' has been stolen by the aforesaid
Respondents for an illegal gain and thereby to bring a loss to his personal
exchequer.

	122.  The averments/allegation of the Writ Petitioner are stoutly
denied by the Respondents 7 to 11.  It is the categorical stand of the
Respondents 8 and 10 that the Petitioner cannot claim Copy Right in an
unpublished work and the statements in 'You Tube' do not constitute
publication of Petitioner's story.  Also that it is their forcible plea that
no one can claim Copy Right Over Penny Quick's life or the theme of a hero
constructing a Dam and protecting it from anti-social elements and the
concept of a story, qua an intellectual property is something wider and would
not apply to mere themes and historic facts.

	123.  However, it is represented on behalf of the Petitioner before
this Court that the counter of Eleventh Respondent proceeds to state that
both the script and screen play for the movie 'Lingaa' was authored by the
Eighth Respondent, which runs contra to the claim made by the Tenth
Respondent who had stated that it was he who wrote the screen play for the
basic story line of the Eighth Respondent.

	124.  Be that as it may, on a careful consideration of respective
contentions and in view of the divergent stand taken by the respective
parties and also this Court taking note of the over all assessment of
conspectus of the entire attendant facts and circumstances of the present
case in an encircling fashion comes to an inevitable conclusion that the
grievance of the Petitioner that his intellectual property/story  'Mullai
Vanam 999' was stolen by the Respondents 7, 8, 10 and 11 from 'You Tube' is a
private dispute especially when the Respondents 7 to 11 have stoutly denied
the same and suffice it for this Court to say that in this regard, the merits
of the rival claims made by the parties in the subject matter in issue before
this Court cannot be investigated in a summary proceedings under Art.226 of
the Constitution of India.

	125.  That apart, when the Petitioner claims to be the owner of 'Mullai
Vanam 999' an intellectual property/story, then his remedy is not to file the
present Writ Petition before this Court under Article 226 of the Constitution
of India against the concerned persons who have alleged to have been
infringed his Copy Right/stolen his intellectual property and in this regard,
the appropriate remedy for him is to file a Civil Suit before the Competent
forum or to avail other remedies available under General Law or in Criminal
Law and that too in the manner known to law and in accordance with Law, if he
so desires/advised and also deems fit and proper based on the
facts and circumstances of the case which float on the surface.  Viewed in
that perspective, the Writ Petition fails.

	126.  In the result, the Writ Petition is dismissed, leaving the
parties to be bear their own costs.  Consequently, the connected
Miscellaneous Petitions are also dismissed.

3/12/2014

mvs.

Index:  Yes

website:  yes

















To

1.  The Director General of Police
     Dr. Kamarajar Salai
     Mylapore
     Chennai.

2.  The Inspector General of Police
     South Zone
     New Natham Road
     Madurai.

3.  The Commissioner of Police
     Madurai City
     Madurai.

4.  The Secretary
     The Ministry of Information and
         Broadcasting
     Union of India
     New Delhi.			

5.  The Secretary
     Information and Cinema
     Fort St. George
     Chennai.

6.  The Chief Producer
     Government of India Films Division
     Shastri Bhavan
     Haddows Road
     Egmore
     Chennai.

				M.VENUGOPAL,J
		      									
	  mvs.	

Pre-delivery order in
W.P.(MD) No.18210 of 2014













										

3/12/2014











