









Kalandi Charan Lenka vs State Of Odisha on 16 January, 2017



Share Link
Mobile View



Premium Members
Advanced Search
Case Removal








 Cites 27 docs 
      
        - [View All]
      
      
The Income- Tax Act,   1995
Section 439 in The Code Of Criminal Procedure,   1973
Section 67A in The Income- Tax Act,   1995
The Information Technology Act, 2000
Section 292 in The Indian Penal Code

















Warning on Translation





Take notes as you read a judgment using our Virtual Legal Assistant and get email alerts whenever a new judgment matches your query (Query Alert Service). Try out our Premium Member services -- Free for one month.

Orissa High Court
Kalandi Charan Lenka vs State Of Odisha on 16 January, 2017                                                   1




                             HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK
                                    BLAPL No.7596 of 2016
             In the matter of an application under Section 439 of the Code of
             Criminal Procedure, 1973.

                                             ---------------

             Kalandi Charan Lenka                      ...              Petitioner

                                                -Versus-

             State of Odisha                           ...             Opposite Party

                            For Petitioner      : M/s. D. Nayak, B.K. Das,
                                                  S.K. Das & U.R. Jena

                            For Opposite Party: Mr. P. B. Tripathy

                                                   Additional Standing Counsel

             PRESENT:

                     THE HON'BLE DR. JUSTICE D.P. CHOUDHURY
             ___________________________________________________
             Date of hearing: 15.12.2016  Date of Judgment:16.01.2017
             ___________________________________________________

Dr. D.P. Choudhury, J. This is an application under Section 439 Cr.P.C. to

             release the petitioner on bail who is allegedly involved for the

             offences under Sections 354-A/354-D/465/469/506/507/509 of

             the   I.P.C.    read   with     Section    66-C/66-D/67/67-A     of   the

             Information Technology Act.

             2.             The factual matrix leading to the case of the

             prosecution is that the informant is a woman studying in the

             Pattamundai Women's College at Pattamundai. It is alleged, inter
                                  2




alia, that her father has got three daughters and his first

daughter is mentally retarded girl and the second daughter is the

informant herself. The victim girl while studying in College

unknown obscene messages came in her mobile imputing her

character. Before this also from unknown mobile number,

obscene messages affecting the character of the informant also

had come through Cell phone of her father. Her father after

going through the message became remorse and asked the

informant-victim about the matter. So, the victim woman was

mentally disturbed by seeing these obscene messages. Then

during the year 2015-2016 the written letters containing vulgar

languages imputing the character of the victim girl came to her

father. Such letters came with sexual remark and with a design

to denigrate the character of the victim girl. The messages not

only affect the character of the victim girl but also connected the

other male members to have sex with the victim girl.

3.         Not only this but also it is alleged, inter alia, that the

pamphlet against the character of the victim girl was also pasted

on the wall of the Hostel where the victim girl was residing for

which she has to change her place of study. But the culprit did

not forget to follow her. Wherever the victim girl studied, the

printed pamphlets with sexual remarks against the victim girl
                                    3




were pasted on the walls. Finally a fake Facebook Account in the

name of the victim girl was created and in the Facebook the

morphed naked photographs of the victim girl were transmitted

with intention to outrage her modesty. Then the victim girl was

bound to inform the Police in writing to take legal action against

the culprit.

4.             During course of investigation, Cyber Cell of the

Crime Branch examined various witnesses and sent mail to

different service providers to trace out the mobile number along

with IMEI number. The victim has been examined under Section

164 Cr.P.C. She stated that the petitioner who was very

acquainted with the family of the complainant has proposed to

marry her and when this marriage could not be finalized, he

suspected      him   to   have   transmitted   the   obscene   letters,

scandalous mail and published the pamphlets imputing the

character of the victim girl. Through such obscene and vulgar

mails and creation of the fake Facebook Account in the name of

the victim girl, the petitioner has exhibited his intention to

intimidate her with the purpose to exploit her sexually. So, the

Cyber Cell of the Crime Branch after collecting evidence came to

know that it is the petitioner who was involved with these types

of nepharious cyber crimes. Then the petitioner was arrested and
                                 4




forwarded to court. As per the prosecution, the investigation is

going on.

SUBMISSION

5.          Learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that the

petitioner is an innocent person and he was in love with the

victim girl. According to him, the victim girl has got another boy

friend who must have committed the offence as alleged. He

further submitted that except offences under Sections 506 IPC

and 67-A of the Information Technology Act, all other offences

are bailable in nature and the offences under Sections 506 IPC

and 67-A of the Information Technology Act have not prescribed

capital punishment and the petitioner is in custody since last two

months for which lenient view may be taken to release the

petitioner on bail with any condition as deem fit and proper.

6.          Mr. Tripathy, learned Additional Standing Counsel

vehemently opposed the bail stating that not only the victim girl

has been defamed by the overt act of the petitioner but also

through the electronic device the crime has been committed by

the petitioner to sexually harass her and to cause intimidation to

the victim girl so as to compel her to surrender to the design of

the petitioner. He further submitted that the Cyber Cell of the

Crime Branch has collected enough materials to find out prima
                                   5




facie case against the petitioner. Since it is a Cyber Crime which

is a threat to the society and dignity of the women, the court

should not allow the petitioner to go on bail.

DISCUSSION

7.          Considered the submissions of both the counsels.

Perused the Case Diary and other papers produced in this case.

Before going through the fact of the case, the well known

principle for considering the bail under Section 439 Cr.P.C. is

necessary to be reproduced here for better appreciation. In the

case of Neeru Yadav v. State of U.P. and another, reported in

2014(14) SCALE 59, referring to the case of Prahlad Singh Bhati

v. NCT, Delhi & another, (2001) 4 SCC 280, the Hon'ble Supreme

Court have observed in paragraphs 10 and 11 as follows:-

         10. xx         xx            xx

         "(a) While granting bail the court has to keep in mind
         not only the nature of the accusations, but the
         severity of the punishment, if the accusation entails a
         conviction and the nature of evidence in support of
         the accusations.

              (b) Reasonable apprehensions of the witnesses
         being tampered with or the apprehension of there
         being a threat for the complainant should also weigh
         with the court in the matter of grant of bail.

              (c) While it is not expected to have the entire
         evidence establishing the guilt of the accused beyond
         reasonable doubt but there ought always to be a
         prima facie satisfaction of the court in support of the
         charge.

              (d) Frivolity in prosecution should always be
         considered and it is only the element of genuineness
                                      6




            that shall have to be considered in the matter of grant
            of bail, and in the event of there being some doubt as
            to the genuineness of the prosecution, in the normal
            course of events, the accused is entitled to an order
            of bail."

            11.      In Chaman Lal V. State of U.P.; (2004) 7
            SCC 525, the Court has laid down certain factors,
            namely, the nature of accusation, severity of
            punishment in case of conviction and the character of
            supporting evidence, reasonable apprehension of
            tampering with the witness or apprehension of threat
            to the complainant, and prima facie satisfaction of the
            Court in support of the charge which are to be kept in
            mind."

              With due regard to the said principle, the court while

considering the bail application under Section 439 of Cr.P.C. has

to consider various aspects as observed in the aforesaid

decision.


8.            In the instant case, the statement of the victim girl

recorded under Section 164 Cr.P.C. that while the victim was

studying in +3 at Tulasi Womens College, Kendrapara, her father

met accident and on 12.12.2013 her father got recovered and

came to house. On that day a message came to her father's

mobile and through that message the culprit has threatened in

obscene      language     to   damage     her   character.    Thereafter

continuously messages came for which the victim and her father

were alarmed. Then she got her transferred to U.N. Autonomous

College, Science and Technology, Adaspur to continue her study.

There she remained in a private hostel. There the pamphlets
                                7




imputing the character of the victim girl was pasted in front of

the hostel. Moreover messages continued to come to her father's

mobile by using obscene and vulgar languages for exploiting the

victim girl sexually. There was also criminal intimidation by

threatening to outrage the modesty of the victim girl. Also the

unknown culprit sent different messages with slang languages to

the friends of the victim for which the hostel owner had to

remove her from his hostel. In the College premises also the

pamphlets outraging the modesty of the victim girl were pasted

on the walls of the College for which the College authorities had

to enquire about the matter from the victim girl. It is further

stated by her that while the victim girl was searching the

Facebook Account she came to know that a fake Facebook

Account has been opened in her name and in that Facebook

message, the morphed naked photo of victim girl was sent

addressing her as lover. By such morphed photo being sent

through public post and the message coming from different

numbers to her mobile made her alarmed and she was mentally

shocked and suffered from trauma. Her statement does not

disclose that all these criminal wrong are being committed by

the petitioner.
                                 8
9.         On further examination under Section 161 Cr.P.C. the

victim girl stated that the petitioner has access to her house as

her father had no son but three daughters and the petitioner

used to lend his hand for helping. She has also stated that when

the petitioner came to know from her father about filing of case

before the Crime Branch, his behaviour changed and avoided to

come to their house. She also stated that due to access to their

house the petitioner had already taken the data, photo and

contact details from the phone of the victim girl and the

petitioner was not tolerating while she was talking with any boy

friend but the victim girl had addressed him as brother. It is

further found from her statement that the petitioner had

proposed in 2012 to marry her although she had no feeling as

such and was treating him as brother and tied rakhi.

10.        On further scrutiny of her statement, it appears the

victim girl has a boy friend, namely, Manoj Kumar Ojha who had

family relation with the family of the victim girl and used to work

outside Odisha. On query by her, he denied to have sent any sort

of obscene and vulgar messages to the victim girl or her father.

The statement of the father of the victim girl supports the

statement of the victim girl. The statement of Manoj shows that

the petitioner has got close access to the family of victim girl as
                                9




the father of the victim girl had to depend on the petitioner to

look after some household work since the victim's father has no

any son. He also stated that his E.Mail I.D. and Password had

been taken by the petitioner for which he suspects about the

misuse of his I.D. while purchasing a SIM to utilize the same for

illegal purpose.   The statement of Amiya Ranjan Nayak shows

that he is a driver and he had got Micromax Bolt mobile in which

dual SIM facilities was there for which he had BSNL Number

9439502143 and Vodafone Mobile Number 9853611688. But

while he was residing in a rented house, his mobile was stolen

away. One month thereafter he got another mobile with

Vodafone SIM Card. The statement of Rajanikanta Nayak who

happens to be the Heads of the Department of English of U.N.

Autonomous College, Adaspur where the victim was studying

corroborating the statement of the victim about the obscene and

vulgar messages being transmitted to her and about seizure of

Facebook Account from the possession of the victim girl.

11.         During investigation, Crime Branch has sent mail to

Facebook Law Enforcement Response Team and other Mobile

Service Providers, namely, Nodal Officers of Vodafone Spacetel

Ltd., Bharti Airtel Ltd., AIRCEL, TATA Telecommunications Ltd.,

Reliance Communications Ltd., IDEA Cellular Ltd., BSNL and after
                                   10




extensive investigation came to know that the accused had

accessed and operated the fake Facebook Account using the

Vodafone account in the name of the victim girl through internet

by using Vodafone ISP and the Airtel ISP. The I.O. also found

that good numbers of SIM Cards with different IMEI numbers

have been used by the accused to commit the offence. The

Enquiring Officers of different service providers have also given

certificate under Section 65-B of the Evidence Act about the print

out   retrieved   as   to   the   messages   and   morphed   naked

photographs of victim girl.

12.         After going through all the materials, it appears that

through the electronic form there is stalking, online transmission

of sexual explicit or obscene morphed naked picture of the

victim. So, the offences under the Information Technology Act

(hereinafter called the "I.T. Act") prima facie cannot be ruled

out. Moreover, in Sharat Babu Digumarti v. Govt. of NCT of

Delhi (S.L.P. (Criminal) No.7675 of 2015, disposed of on 14th

December, 2016) the Hon'ble Apex Court have been pleased to

observe in para-28 which is as follows:-

        "28. Having noted the provisions, it has to be
        recapitulated that Section 67 clearly stipulates
        punishment for publishing, transmitting obscene
        materials in electronic form. The said provision read
        with Section 67A and 67B is a complete code Page 28
        28 relating to the offences that are covered under the
        IT Act. Section 79, as has been interpreted, is an
                                    11




        exemption provision conferring protection to the
        individuals. However, the said protection has been
        expanded in the dictum of Shreya Singhal (supra) and
        we concur with the same. Section 81 also specifically
        provides that the provisions of the Act shall have effect
        notwithstanding      anything     inconsistent   therewith
        contained in any other law for the time being in force.
        All provisions will have their play and significance, if the
        alleged offence pertains to offence of electronic record.
        It has to be borne in mind that IT Act is a special
        enactment. It has special provisions. Section 292 of the
        IPC makes offence sale of obscene books, etc. but once
        the offence has a nexus or connection with the
        electronic record the protection and effect of Section 79
        cannot be ignored and negated. We are inclined to
        think so as it is a special provision for a specific
        purpose and the Act has to be given effect to so as to
        make the protection effective and true to the legislative
        intent".

13.         With due regard, in the above case under Sections

292, 294 of I.P.C. and Sections 67, 67A and 67B of the I.T. Act,

charge was made but the Hon'ble Apex Court was pleased to

opine that when the offence under the I.T. Act is made out,

similar offence under Section 292 of I.P.C. cannot go together for

the reason that the I.T. Act being special provision would operate

in the field of offence committed through electronic form.

Applying the ratio of the case, in the instant case the entire

obscene message and fake Facebook account showing stalking

and obscene representation or morphed naked photograph of the

victim are all prima facie committed by the petitioner through

electronic form as per the Police papers. Moreover, the material

about the pamphlets or any other form of defamation to the
                                12




character of the victim pasted on the wall of the College or

hostel as alleged being not investigated to have been made by

the present petitioner except a suspicion is raised about his

involvement with such crime. But offences under the I.T. Act are

prima facie made out against the petitioner. On the other hand,

the offences under the I.P.C. against the petitioner is yet to be

made out. Be that as it may, offence under Section 67A of the

I.T. Act as made out prima facie in this case against the

petitioner is non-bailable.

14.         Now adverting to the statement of the victim again it

appears that through the electronic form the petitioner had

made it clear that he has got a one side love and being not

successful in materializing the design of love, he took shelter of

cyber law to commit crime. The dignity of woman is always

required to be protected and under Article 51-A of the

Constitution every citizen has got fundamental duty to protect

the dignity of the woman. Even if the offence prima facie

committed through electronic form but the punishment under

Section 67-A of the I.T. Act is up to five years if committed at

first. It appears that the investigating agency has made detailed

investigation and brought the petitioner to book but did not
                                 13




disclose any criminal antecedent of the present petitioner. The

petitioner is in custody since 28.10.2016.

15.        Considering    the   punishment   prescribed   for   the

offence prima facie found out, most of the offences as alleged by

prosecution are bailable, character of evidence as discussed

above including absence of criminal antecedent of petitioner and

period of his custody, lenient view is taken to release him on

bail. But the dignity of the woman as discussed above has to be

kept in view as stalking or opening of fake Facebook account or

obscene representation including morphed naked photographs

are menace to the society and the right of the woman.

16.        Thus, balancing the act committed, prima facie

offence found out against the petitioner and protection of the

dignity/right of victim woman, the petitioner should be released

on bail by imposing strict conditions. So, let the petitioner be

released on bail of Rs.50,000/- (Rupees fifty thousand) with two

solvent sureties each, out of which one surety should be one of

his parents, for the like amount to the satisfaction of the learned

J.M.F.C., Pattamundai in G.R. Case No.225 of 2015 arising out of

Cyber Crime P.S. Case No.07 of 2016 on conditions that (i) he

would appear before the Investigating Officer on every Sunday

at 10.00 A.M. till Final Form is submitted and also would be
                                  14




available to the I.O. as and when required for the purpose of

further investigation, if any, after submission of Final Form; (ii)

He would not commit any offence including the offence through

the electronic form while on bail; (iii) He would not induce or

threaten the victim woman or her parents or any prosecution

witnesses directly or indirectly through any manner; and (iv) He

would also not visit the town of Pattamundai where the victim or

her family members reside and place where the victim is

studying or working except in the occasion when he would have

to appear before the I.O. or before the Court in seisin of the

matter till submission of Final Form and in the event of filing of

charge-sheet till conclusion of the trial.

            The BLAPL is accordingly disposed of.


                                             ..................................
                                             Dr. D.P. Choudhury, J.




ORISSA HIGH COURT: CUTTACK
Dated 16th January, 2017/Kar
 











