









Google India Private Ltd vs M/S. Visakha Industries on 10 December, 2019



Share Link
Mobile View



Premium Members
Advanced Search
Case Removal








 Cites 79 docs 
      
        - [View All]
      
      
Section 79 in The Information Technology Act, 2000
The Code Of Criminal Procedure (Amendment) Act,   2005
Section 79 in The Income- Tax Act,   1995
The Income- Tax Act,   1995
The Indian Penal Code
 Citedby 0 docs
      
      
J.P.Vijayaraj vs P.Mohan on 2 September, 2021
Flipkart Internet Private Ltd. vs State Of Nct Of Delhi & Anr. on 17 August, 2022
Nand Kishore Pandey vs State Of Chhattisgarh on 7 June, 2021
Sunil Prem Masih vs . on 21 August, 2021
Bilkish Begum vs State Of Chhattisgarh on 16 November, 2021

















Warning on Translation





Take notes as you read a judgment using our Virtual Legal Assistant and get email alerts whenever a new judgment matches your query (Query Alert Service). Try out our Premium Member services -- Free for one month.

Supreme Court of India
Google India Private Ltd vs M/S. Visakha Industries on 10 December, 2019Author: Mohan M. Shantanagoudar
Bench: Mohan M. Shantanagoudar, K.M. Joseph
                                                                         REPORTABLE



                                 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
                                CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION

                               CRIMINAL APPEAL NO. 1987 OF 2014



           GOOGLE INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED                            ...   APPELLANT(S)


                                               VERSUS

           M/S.   VISAKHA              INDUSTRIES       AND    ANOTHER             ...
           RESPONDENT(S)



                                          J U D G M E N T

           K.M. JOSEPH, J.


           1.            The appellant is the second accused in criminal

           complaint filed by the first respondent (hereinafter

           referred to as ‘complainant’, for short). The appellant

           filed a Petition under Section 482 The Code of Criminal

           Procedure,           1973     (hereinafter         referred   to   as   ‘the

           Cr.PC’, for short), seeking to quash the order passed
Signature Not Verified

Digitally signed by
GULSHAN KUMAR
ARORA
Date: 2019.12.10
17:15:00 IST

           by the Magistrate summoning the appellant pursuant to
Reason:


                                                    1
the complaint which seeks to invoke Sections 120B, 500

and 501 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code,

1860 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the IPC’, for short).



THE COMPLAINT

2.    The complainant is a public limited company engaged

in the business of manufacturing and selling asbestos

cement sheets with seven manufacturing plants and more

than twenty-five marketing offices all over India. It

is    further,   inter    alia,     stated    that   the    product   is

manufactured       in   all   its    plants    in    an    environment

friendly manner. The first accused is alleged to be the

Coordinator of Ban Asbestos India, a group hosted by

the appellant. Articles are regularly published in the

said group. On 21.11.2008, an article was published. It

was captioned “Poisoning the system: Hindustan Times”.

The    complaint    targeted      renowned     politicians     of     the

country who were named and who had nothing to do with

the     ownership       and   management        of    the     company.

Complainant pleads shock on seeing the article dated



                                    2
31.07.2008 captioned “Visaka Asbestos Industries making

gains”. It is stated that asbestos cement sheets have

been   manufactured   for    more   than   70   years   in   India.

First accused singled out the complainant though there

are    other   groups       manufacturing       asbestos     cement

products. The relevant part, which is pertinent to the

appellant is contained in paragraph-11:



         “11. Complainant      most     humbly     and
              respectfully submits that the Accused
              No.1’s statement in the articles in
              the above mentioned group hosted by
              the Accused No.2 is filled with
              hatred towards Complainant which is
              defamatory in nature, and which a
              person of ordinary intelligence in
              society   would    believe    the   said
              statements. Indeed the said statement
              injured      the      reputation      of
              Complainant. The act of the accused
              in    posting     certain     defamatory
              articles in the cyber space, which is
              visited   by     innumerable    internet
              surfers which has vide usage all over
              the   world    in    who’s   mind    the
              complainant company is being caused
              with     such      defamatory      false
              statements. The service provider like
              Accused No.2 has made it easier than
              ever before to disseminate defamatory
              statements to the world wide audience
              without taking any due care and


                                3
             diligence to prevent it. The Accused
             No.2 has abused the services provided
             by it, because both the articles in
             the group hosted by it was targeted
             towards a particular company which is
             well within the knowledge of the
             Accused No.2.”
                               (Emphasis supplied)


3.   Cause of action is mentioned at paragraph-15 and it

reads as follows:


         “15. CAUSE OF ACTION: Cause of Action for
              the complainant arose on 31st July,
              2008,    when    an  article    “Visaka
              Asbestos Industries making gains” was
              disseminated by accused no.1 in “Ban
              asbestos    India”  group   hosted   by
                                    st
              accused no.2 and 21      November 2008
              when the second article “Poisoning
              the system: Hindustan Times” was
              disseminated by the accused no.1 in
              “Bank Asbestos India” group hosted by
              accused no.2 and on 10.12.2008 when
              the notice to withdraw such articles
              was issued by the Complainant and on
              subsequent dates.”


4.   Jurisdiction is indicated in paragraph-16 of the

complaint and it read as follows:


         “16. JURISDICTION: The Corporate Office
              of the Complainant is situated at


                            4
               “Visaka Towers”, 1-8-303/69/3, S.P.
               Road,    Secunderabad.  Since   the
               Corporate Office of the Complainant
               Company   is   situated within  the
               limits of P.S. Ramgopalpet, this
               Hon’ble Court has got jurisdiction
               to try this complaint.”

5.   Deputy Manager (Legal) of the complainant made his

statement.     Thereafter,   the   appellant   came   to   be

summoned. The summoning order read as follows:

                 “SUMMONS TO AN ACCUSED PERSON

                       (Sec.81 Cr.P.C.)

                                                 1363

         In the Court of the XI A.C.M. Magistrate
         at Secunderabad

                       c.c. No. 679/2009

         Between:

         M/s. Visaka Industries       … Complainant

               AND

         Mr. Gopal Krishna & others … Accused

         To,

               M/s. Google India Pvt. Ltd.,
               3rd Floor, Prestige Sigma,
               No.3, Vittal Mallya Road,
               Bangalore 560001.

                              5
                 Whereas your attendance is necessary
          answer    to    Charge       of    U/s.500,       501    of
          I.P.C. r/w 34 you are hereby directed to
          appear in person or by pleader before the
          Hon’ble    XI   A.C.M.M.          Court    on   the     day
          09.09.2009 10.30 A.M.

          Dated this……… day ………………

          Seal
                                                            Sd/-
                                                     Magistrate”




6.   It is the said order which came to be challenged

before the High Court.

7.   By   the    impugned   judgment,          the    High      Court   has

dismissed the petition.


FINDINGS OF THE HIGH COURT


8.   Section 79 of The Information Technology Act, 2000

(hereinafter     referred   to     as       ‘the    Act’,    for   short),

which appears to have been relied on by the appellant

was found to not exempt a network service provider from

liability much less criminal liability for the offences


                                   6
under other laws or, more particularly, under the IPC.

It was further found that the above provision exempted

Network Service Provider from liability only on proving

that the offence or contravention was committed without

its     knowledge      or    that       he    had     exercised        all   due

diligence to prevent the commission of such offence or

contravention. Proof, in that regard, can be let in by

leading evidence by the accused. This is a question of

fact    which    the    High     Court       may    not   go    into    in   the

petition under Section 482 of the Cr.PC.. The Court

later notices the amended Section 79 of the Act which

came into being with effect from 27.10.2009. It was

noted that it is only under the said amendment that a

non     obstante       clause     was        incorporated       keeping      the

application of other laws outside the purview in a fact

situation       covered     by    the    said       provision.      Under    the

amended    Section 79,           in case       the intermediary          enters

into any conspiracy, the exemption under Section 79 of

the Act could not be claimed. So also, the intermediary

could     not    claim      exemption          in    case      he   fails     to



                                        7
expeditiously       remove     or        disable     access     to     the

objectionable material or unlawful activity, even after

receiving actual knowledge thereof.

9.   The   appellant,    it    was       found,    did   not   move    its

little     finger   to   block       the    material      or   to     stop

dissemination       of   the     unlawful          and   objectionable

material    in spite     of the      complainant issuing            notice

about    the   dissemination        of    defamatory     material      and

unlawful activity on the part of the first accused.

Therefore, it was found that the appellant could not

claim any exemption under Section 79 of the Act, prior

to its substitution, or Section 79 of the Act, after

its substitution, which took effect from 27.10.2009.

10. The complaint was instituted in January, 2009. It

related to an offence which was being perpetuated from

31.07.2008 onwards, i.e., since long before prior to

the amendment of the said provision. It was finally

found that there was no exemption of any criminal law

in respect of a company which is a juristic person and

which has no body that can be damned or condemned, in



                                    8
case     found    guilty.         Appellant            can     be    awarded     with

appropriate punishment though not corporal punishment.

Finding no merit, the petition was dismissed.

11. We       heard    Shri       Sajan       Poovayya,             learned     senior

counsel      appearing      on     behalf         of    the     appellant,       Shri

Sridhar       Potaraju       the      learned                Counsel     for      the

complainant/first           respondent-M/s.                  Visakha    Industries

and    Ms.    Madhavi      Divan,    learned            Additional       Solicitor

General appearing on behalf of the respondents.

12. Shri Sajan Poovayya would contend that services on

google    groups      is    not    provided            by    the    appellant.    In

other     words,      the     basis          of    the        complainant       that

appellant is the intermediary, is completely erroneous.

The legal notice sent by the complainant, did not make

reference to any specific URL. The expansion of URL is

Unique Reference Locator which is the address of the

content on web to identify or locate the objectionable

post. Therefore, the notice was invalid. The appellant,

however, as a gesture, made over the said notice dated

09.12.2008       to   its    parent      entity,             i.e.,     Google    Inc.



                                         9
presently Google LLC. It is Google LLC which owns the

Google Group platforms. Google LLC replied to the legal

notice    and     requested     the    complainant          to     provide

specific URLs. It is without responding to the same

that the complaint came to be filed. It is contended

that the complaint proceeds on a mistaken premise that

the   appellant hosts      and provides        services on          Google

Groups.    A     further   fallacious      basis       is        that   the

intermediary and hosting service provider is expected

to monitor and pre-censor publication of content on its

platform. Error is alleged to underlie the assumption

that hosting of services involves the fact that the

intermediary host has knowledge of the content posted

on a hosting platform. An independent publication by an

author    of    any   content   by    itself   again    demonstrates

absence of any connivance between the author and the

intermediary host. There is no case for the complainant

that the appellant is the author or publisher of the

allegedly defamatory articles. On the other hand, the




                                 10
complaint itself proceeds on the basis that it is the

first accused who is the author of the articles.



13. The   appellant    lay       store    by   the   parallel   civil

proceedings between the parties. Following the legal

notice issue to the appellant and to Google LLC on

21.01.2009,   a civil       suit was      instituted against         the

first accused, Google LLC and the appellant.

14. The   suit   filed      by   the     complainant    came    to    be

dismissed by judgment dated 17.02.2014. The complainant

succeeded in the first appeal and the court decreed the

suit on 29.01.2016. The appellants preferred a second

appeal. The appeal came to be allowed by the High Court

on 18.01.2016 by which the suit came to be dismissed

against the appellant which was the second defendant.

It is pointed out that the appellant has filed a review

confined in nature against the same. The complainant

has also filed a review.

15. Google LLC is a company incorporated under the laws

of   United   States   of    America.      Google     LLC   owns     and



                                  11
operates the Google Groups Platforms. The appellant is

the subsidiary of the Google LLC Group. Appellant has

its own separate legal identity. The High Court has

ignored that control over the Google Group platform was

of Google LLC.

16. The learned senior counsel for the appellant drew

our attention to the primary terms upon which service

is rendered by Google LLC. An agreement is contemplated

between a user and Google LLC. Appellant is a company

registered under the Indian Companies Act having its

office at Bangalore. Appellant is appointed as a non-

exclusive reseller of Google LLC Ads program in India

on a principal to principal basis. The appellant is

engaged      in   business    development   and    promotional

activity for certain limited products and does not play

any   role   in   providing   or   administering   services   as

regards Google Groups. It is contended that appellant

is not an agent of Google LLC and it enjoys autonomy in

its functions.


                               12
17. The     terms        of   service         regarding     Google    Groups

clearly    indicate        that    the       services     are   provided    by

Google LLC and not by the appellant. It is contended

that publicly available documents of an unimpeachable

character      or    any      incontrovertible          evidence     may    be

considered by the High Court in deciding a matter under

Section 482 of the Cr.PC.. The Google Groups terms of

service is pressed as one such document. Reliance is

placed    on   decisions          of    this    Court     including    Rajiv

Thapar and others v. Madan Lal Kapoor1 and HMT Watches

Limited v. M.A. Abida and another2. Such judicial notice

has been taken in the civil proceedings, it is pointed

out.

18. Next,      it   contended          that    the    ingredients     of   the

offence of defamation under Section 499 of the IPC have

not    been    made        out.        The    first     ingredient     being

publication of an imputation has not been satisfied qua

the appellant but only as against the first accused. An

intermediary        is    neither       a     publisher    of   third-party

1
       (2013) 3 SCC 330
2
       (2015) 11 SCC 776


                                        13
content    nor      does    it   have     knowledge      of   any    content

unless    it        is    notified      through     an      order    of   an

appropriate court or a Government agency. No provision

of the Act has been invoked. Relying on Sharat Babu

Digumarti      v.    Government      (NCT    of    Delhi)3     and    Shreya

Singhal v. Union of India4, it is sought to be contended

that since no provisions of the Act are invoked, the

complaint is vitiated. It is still further contended

that     there       is    no    complaint        against     the     actual

intermediary, viz., Google LLC. It is further contended

that in the context of digital platform, where millions

of posts are made, no editorial control of any sort is

exercised by an intermediary in the publication of any

content on such platforms.

19. It is contended that mere hosting of content would

be insufficient to attribute knowledge, and if does not

amount to publication of content. Appellant cannot be

attributed with actual knowledge to ascribe a mental

element. The role is passive. The author originates the

3
       (2017) 2 SCC 18
4
       (2015) 5 SCC 1


                                     14
material and the author is the originator and not the

intermediary.      The     person    who     accesses      or    reads     the

content again is not an intermediary but the addressee.

Unless the content is brought to the actual knowledge

of the intermediary, taking down the material, cannot

be imposed upon the intermediary. Actual knowledge must

be that which is conveyed through a court order or

through       an    appropriate           Government       agency.         The

intermediary cannot become a private censor or arbiter

of content. The appellant seeks to emphasise upon the

adverse    impact     it   would     have     on   freedom       of   Online

Speech and Expression guaranteed under Article 19(1)(A)

of the Constitution of India.

20. The      appellant      also     makes    the     point      that      the

mandatory inquiry under Section 202 of the Cr.PC has

not   been    made.      The    appellant     stood     arrayed       as    an

accused denoting its office at Hyderabad, Bengaluru and

Gurugram       whereas         the    ACJM,        whose        territorial

jurisdiction is limited to Secunderabad, is the court

where   the    complaint       was   filed.     Section     202       of   the



                                     15
Cr.PC,     has   been   observed,         in    its   breach        by   the

Magistrate.      The decision      in     Abhijit Pawar        v.    Hemant

Madhukar Nimbalkar and another5, has been enlisted in

support in this regard.

21. A subsidiary does not become liable for the acts of

its parent company, is another contention. It is also

contended that a person cannot be compelled to perform

an impossible act.


CONTENTIONS OF THE COMPLAINANT


22. It is not open to the appellants to have invoked

powers   under     Section   482     of    the    Cr.PC.      The    matter

involves     investigation      of      allegations        relating       to

facts. It is pointed out as to whether the appellant is

hosting the google group wherein the first accused has

published defamatory articles is a question of fact.

The question as to whether the appellant is or not an

intermediary, is a question of fact. As to whether the

appellant    and    Google   LLC     are       managed   by    different

entities or the same entity, is another question of
5
     (2017) 3 SCC 528


                                   16
fact. The respondent would dispute the contention that

the   documents   produced    by    the    appellant    are     of   an

unimpeachable character. The documents are sought to be

relied on without complying with the mandate of Section

65B of The Indian Evidence Act, 1872. Reliance in this

regard Anvar P.V. v. P.K. Basheer and others6.

23. It is further submitted that the Magistrate has a

judicial discretion upon examining the complainant to

proceed without recourse to the procedure under Section

202 of Cr.PC. There is no pleading of any prejudice by

the   appellant    nor    proof    adduced     about     the    same.

Regarding this, reliance is placed on judgment of this

Court in Shivjee Singh v. Nagendra Tiwari and others7.

24. Google hosts the Google Groups. The only question

of fact is whether the appellant is in control of the

said Group or it is, as claimed, controlled by its

Parent Company. Hence, the issue is limited as to the

role of appellant and its participation in the business

of    providing   Google     Groups       platform     and     raising

6
      (2014) 10 SCC 473
7
      (2010) 7 SCC 578


                               17
revenues      for    the    same     through      advertisements,           etc.

apart      from     marketing        it.    The     appellant,         it     is

contended,        cannot    be   allowed     to    disown       its   role    in

Google Groups. The appellant has withheld the actual

nature of the activities it is carrying on in India. A

party      must     come    to    court     with    clean        hands.      The

Memorandum of Association itself, prima facie, shows

that      their    main    objects      include     providing         internet

related      projects       and/or      services     and     applications.

There is a common economic entity wherein the users are

provided digital space purportedly free but are made to

part    with their         personal data       as consideration.             The

said data is used for generating advertisement revenues

which     are targeted       as user        profile and          geographical

location.

25. The role of appellant is a question of fact. Once

it is put on notice, Google cannot be heard to say that

it   is    not    aware    of    the    content.    If     it     chooses    to

perpetuate        the     content      as   publisher       of     defamatory

content, consequences under law must follow. Appellant



                                       18
plays a very active role in controlling advertisement.

Google is an active publisher as it provides various

tools    to    users      for    enabling     them       to    create   content

online.


STAND OF THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA


26. Internet is an important means of expression and

communication.            Internet    offers            information      on    a

mindboggling variety of subjects. Right to Information

is   part     of   Article       19(1)(A)     of    the       Constitution    of

India.      Internet       has    come    to       be     recognised     as   a

genuinely democratic medium. Communication takes place

at virtually no cost. Internet also is a market place

for commodities and services. The United Nations Human

Rights Council passed a non-binding Resolution in June,

2016 recognizing internet as a basic Human Right. It is

pointed out that Finland became the first country in

2010    which      made    broadband      a    legal      right    for    every

citizen.


                                     19
27. There        is   distinction            between     publication      on    the

internet and publication in the print media. Reference

was    made    to     the    judgment         of   this    Court    in     Shreya

Singhal v. Union of India8, which has recognised this

distinction. It is contended that there are infinite

challenges that internet poses. The high speed and the

high    volumes       render      pre-censorship          highly    difficult.

There is automatic uploading without any application of

mind on the part of the website/platform.

28. In the year 2015, there were 3.5 billion people in

the world who accessed the internet. On Facebook, there

were    three       million       photographs        updated     per     day.    In

every    minute,       510       comments      and     293000    statuses       are

posted.     In      2013,    there       were      200   billion    tweets       on

Twitter.       In     the    traditional           television      programmes,

films    and     newspapers,           the    content     is    pushed    to    the

viewer or the reader. The choice of the reader or the

viewer is limited to viewing the content or reading the

same. Internet, it is pointed out, works on the pull

principle       where       it    is    the    viewer     who    has     complete
8
        (2015) 5 SCC 1


                                         20
control and he exercises his choice as to what content

he would wish to view or read.

29. The internet uses public spectrum and airwaves to

transmit signal. In Secretary, Ministry of Information

and    Broadcasting, Government           of India    and others      v.

Cricket Association of Bengal and others9, this Court

took the view that the right of the listeners and the

viewers      and   not        the   broadcasters,    is      paramount.

Airwaves and frequencies are public property. Monopoly

by either Government or anyone else would not square

with the free speech interest of citizens.

30. The distinction between the pre-amendment and the

after-amendment versions of Section 79 of the Act is

highlighted. It is contended that the very definition

of intermediary would reveal that it is not an editor

or a publisher as understood in the context of the

print media. What flows from the definition points to

the role being that of a facilitator or conduit rather

than    a   selector     or    editor    of   information.    Light   is

sought to be sourced from the views of this Court in
9
       (1995) 2 SCC 161


                                    21
the   decision in    Gambhirsinh R.   Dekare   v.   Falgunbhai

Chimabhai Patel and another10:


            “18. Therefore, from the scheme of the
          Act it is evident that it is the Editor
          who controls the selection of the matter
          that is published in a newspaper. Further,
          every copy of the newspaper is required to
          contain the names of the owner and the
          Editor and once the name of the Editor is
          shown, he shall be held responsible in any
          civil and criminal proceeding. Further, in
          view of the interpretation clause, the
          presumption would be that he was the
          person who controlled the selection of the
          matter   that   was    published  in   the
          newspaper. However, we hasten to add that
          this presumption under Section 7 of the
          Act is a rebuttable presumption and it
          would be deemed a sufficient evidence
          unless the contrary is proved. The view
          which we have taken finds support from the
          judgment    of    this     Court   in K.M.
          Mathew v. K.A. Abraham [(2002) 6 SCC 670 :
          2002 SCC (Cri) 1480] , in which it has
          been held as follows: (SCC p. 676, para
          20)

              “20. The provisions contained in
            the Act clearly go to show that
            there could be a presumption against
            the Editor whose name is printed in
            the newspaper to the effect that he
            is the Editor of such publication
10
      (2013) 3 SCC 697


                             22
              and that he is responsible for
              selecting     the        matter      for
              publication.    Though,     a    similar
              presumption cannot be drawn against
              the Chief Editor, Resident Editor or
              Managing Editor, nevertheless, the
              complainant can still allege and
              prove that they had knowledge and
              they   were   responsible      for   the
              publication of the defamatory news
              item. Even the presumption under
              Section    7     is     a     rebuttable
              presumption and the same could be
              proved otherwise. That by itself
              indicates that somebody other than
              editor can also be held responsible
              for   selecting     the    matter    for
              publication in a newspaper.””


31. The aforesaid discussion was in the context of an

editor under the Press and Registration of Books Act,

1867.

32. Still further, reference is made about the role

attributable      to      the   service   provider    of    internet

platforms and that of an originator in the judgment of

this    Court    in    Sharat   Babu   Digumarti     v.    Government

N.C.T. of Delhi11 in Criminal Appeal No. 1222 of 2016.




11
        (2017) 2 SCC 18


                                  23
33. Internet is a free platform. This is on account of

free open democratic nature of the internet.

34. It   is     contended      that       there    will       be    a    chilling

effect    on        free    speech        if      one        were       to        allow

intermediaries        to    intervene      merely        on    complaints            by

individuals         about   being     defamed           or    being          at     the

receiving end of the unfair reporting. If permitted,

such   intervention         would     result       in    privatisation               of

censorship which would be hazardous for free expression

of ideas.

35. Regarding         the    extent       of    the      liability            of    an

intermediary, it is contended that after the amendment

in 2008, intermediary’s role as a mere facilitator of

exchanging      information          or        sales,        is     recognised.

According      to    Government      of    India,       the       pre-amendment

situation is exemplified by the subject matter of the

decision of the Delhi High Court in Avnish Bajaj v.

State (N.C.T. of Delhi)12.


12


116 (2005) DLT 427


                                     24
36. Anybody aggrieved by the posting of any defamatory

matter on the internet can make a takedown reference

under Section 79 of the Act. Section 69A of the Act is

relied    on.   Section    69A   gives   power   to   the   Central

Government to block access by giving directions to any

intermediary on being satisfied of there being need to

do   so   in    the   interest   of   sovereignty     among   other

factors. The matter is governed under the Information

Technology (Procedures and Safeguards for Blocking for

Access of Information by Public) Rules, 2009.

37. As far as the stand of the Union regarding the

liability of the subsidiary of a foreign intermediary

is concerned, reliance is placed on the decision of the

Court of Justice of the European Union (ECJ).

38. The case of In Google Spain SL, Google Inc. v.

Agencia Espanola de Proteccion de Datos (AEPD), Mario

Costeja Gonzalez13, Case C-131/12, Court of Justice of

European Union (ECJ), is important in this regard. In

Google Spain, the ECJ recognized an individual’s right

to be forgotten, enabling a person to obtain removal of
13
      ECLI:EU:C:2014:317


                                 25
 search      results      which       violated       his/her     privacy

 interests.       The   case    has     geographical     implications:

 first, would such removal of content be restricted to

 an EU-audience, and two, does the EU court have the

 authority to direct foreign intermediaries to takedown

 content. The Court embraced the arguments put forth by

 Google’s opponents:


(i)     That Google’s search engine activities are closely

related to the activity of selling advertising space,

which is precisely what subsidiaries such as Google’s

establishment in Spain are engaged.

(ii)    As a result, the processing activities related to

the search engine service are also being carried out “in

the     context   of    the    activities”      of   Google’s    Spanish

subsidiary.

(iii)   The counsels for the plaintiff, Spain and Austria,

likewise emphasised the link between the search engine

service    and    the   selling    of      advertising   space   from   a

business model perspective; arguing that the activity of

Google’s establishment in Spain should not be regarded


                                      26
as an ancillary activity, but rather as an integral part

of    the    primary       activity     (i.e.     the       selling   of

advertisement space)(paragraphs 46 to 52).



39. The ECJ therefore considered that the activities of

the    search        engine    operator     and      those       of   its

establishment        are   “inextricably    linked”,        as   Google’s

search      engine    service      is   closely      related     to   the

activity of selling advertisement space (paragraph 56).

Specifically, the Court reasoned that, “the activities

relating to the advertising space constitute the means

of rendering the search engine at issue economically

profitable and engine is, at the same time, the means

enabling those activities to be performed.”(paragraph

56). The Court in paragraphs 53 and 54 noted that, the

EU’s Data Protection Directive 95/46 “sought to prevent

individuals     from       being   deprived     of    the    protection

guaranteed by the directive and that protection from

being circumvented, by prescribing a particularly broad

territorial scope.” Based on these observations, the




                                   27
ECJ    concluded    that        the   processing          relating      to   the

search engine service should be viewed as taking place

“in the context of the activities of an establishment”

located on EU territory (see paragraphs 53, 54). This

case      recognizes        that        the      domestic          subsidiary

responsible for advertising and attracting a user base

could be held liable for the acts of the parent.

40. Our     attention      is    also    drawn       to    the   decision    in

Richardson v. Facebook14. It is contended that however

given     that   the      foreign       body    may       not    have   Indian

presence,     the   corporate         veil     may    be    lifted      to   fix

liability on the subsidiary, if it is established that

the latter is an alter ego of the foreign company and

support is sought to be drawn from the judgments of

this Court in New Horizons Limited and another v. Union

of India and others15 and State of U.P. and others v.

Renusagar Power Company and others16.




14
        (2015) EWHC 3154 (QB)
15
        (1995) 1 SCC 478
16
        (1988) 4 SCC 59


                                      28
CONTOURS OF THE JURISDICTION OF THE HIGH COURT UNDER
SECTION 482 OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE CODE, 1973

41. The contours of the jurisdiction of the High Court

under Section 482 is no longer res integra. We would

think that it is sufficient if we only advert to the

judgment of this Court in State of Haryana and others

v. Bhajan Lal and others17. This Court held as follows:

              “102. In    the   backdrop    of   the
          interpretation of the various relevant
          provisions of the Code under Chapter XIV
          and of the principles of law enunciated by
          this Court in a series of decisions
          relating   to    the   exercise   of   the
          extraordinary power under Article 226 or
          the inherent powers under Section 482 of
          the Code which we have extracted and
          reproduced above, we give the following
          categories of cases by way of illustration
          wherein such power could be exercised
          either to prevent abuse of the process of
          any court or otherwise to secure the ends
          of justice, though it may not be possible
          to lay down any precise, clearly defined
          and    sufficiently     channelised    and
          inflexible guidelines or rigid formulae
          and to give an exhaustive list of myriad
          kinds of cases wherein such power should
          be exercised.


17
     (1992) Supp (1) SCC 335


                               29
(1)   Where the allegations made in the
      first information report or the
      complaint, even if they are taken
      at their face value and accepted
      in their entirety do not prima
      facie constitute any offence or
      make out a case against the
      accused.
(2)   Where the allegations in the
      first   information    report     and
      other     materials,      if     any,
      accompanying    the   FIR    do   not
      disclose a cognizable offence,
      justifying an investigation by
      police officers under Section
      156(1) of the Code except under
      an order of a Magistrate within
      the purview of Section 155(2) of
      the Code.
(3)   Where       the      uncontroverted
      allegations made in the FIR or
      complaint     and   the      evidence
      collected in support of the same
      do not disclose the commission of
      any offence and make out a case
      against the accused.
(4)   Where, the allegations in the FIR
      do not constitute a cognizable
      offence but constitute only a
      non-cognizable      offence,       no
      investigation is permitted by a
      police officer without an order
      of a Magistrate as contemplated
      under Section 155(2) of the Code.


                30
  (5)   Where the allegations made in the
        FIR or complaint are so absurd
        and inherently improbable on the
        basis of which no prudent person
        can ever reach a just conclusion
        that there is sufficient ground
        for   proceeding    against    the
        accused.
  (6)   Where there is an express legal
        bar engrafted in any of the
        provisions of the Code or the
        concerned Act (under which a
        criminal       proceeding       is
        instituted) to the institution
        and     continuance     of     the
        proceedings and/or where there is
        a specific provision in the Code
        or the concerned Act, providing
        efficacious   redress    for   the
        grievance of the aggrieved party.
  (7)   Where a criminal proceeding is
        manifestly attended with mala
        fide and/or where the proceeding
        is maliciously instituted with an
        ulterior   motive   for   wreaking
        vengeance on the accused and with
        a view to spite him due to
        private and personal grudge.

    103. We also give a note of caution
to the effect that the power of quashing a
criminal proceeding should be exercised
very sparingly and with circumspection and
that too in the rarest of rare cases; that
the court will not be justified in


                  31
          embarking upon an enquiry as to the
          reliability or genuineness or otherwise of
          the allegations made in the FIR or the
          complaint and that the extraordinary or
          inherent powers do not confer an arbitrary
          jurisdiction on the court to act according
          to its whim or caprice.”


42. As to what is the scope of the expression “rarest

of rare cases” indicated in paragraph 103, we may only

refer   to   the   judgment   of    this    Court   in   Jeffrey    J.

Diermeier    and   another    v.    State   of   West    Bengal    and

another18 wherein the law laid down by a Bench of three

Judges in Som Mittal v. Govt. of Karnataka19 has been

referred to:


            “23. The purport of the expression
          “rarest of rare cases”, to which reference
          was made by Shri Venugopal, has been
          explained    recently     in Som    Mittal
          (2) v. Govt. of Karnataka [(2008) 3 SCC
          574 : (2008) 1 SCC (L&S) 910 : (2008) 2
          SCC (Cri) 1] . Speaking for a Bench of
          three Judges, the Hon'ble the Chief
          Justice said: (SCC pp. 580-81, para 9)



18
     (2010) 6 SCC 243
19
     (2008) 3 SCC 753


                                   32
            “9. When the words ‘rarest of rare
          cases’ are used after the words
          ‘sparingly and with circumspection’
          while describing the scope of Section
          482, those words merely emphasise and
          reiterate what is intended to be
          conveyed by the words ‘sparingly and
          with circumspection’. They mean that
          the power under Section 482 to quash
          proceedings   should    not   be   used
          mechanically or routinely, but with
          care and caution, only when a clear
          case for quashing is made out and
          failure to interfere would lead to a
          miscarriage of justice. The expression
          ‘rarest of rare cases’ is not used in
          the sense in which it is used with
          reference to punishment for offences
          under   Section   302   IPC,   but   to
          emphasise that the power under Section
          482 CrPC to quash the FIR or criminal
          proceedings should be used sparingly
          and with circumspection.”
                              (Emphasis supplied)


43. Applying   the   principles,   the   question   would   be

whether the appellant had made out a case for granting

relief in proceedings under Section 482 of the Cr.PC.

As far as the offence of defamation is concerned, even

though the offence under Section 500 is non-cognizable

under the First Schedule to the Cr.PC, the matter would




                            33
not be governed by paragraph 2 of the judgment of this

Court in Bhajan                              Lal (supra) as the it

is the case of a complaint and not of a Police Report.

Equally, paragraph 4 of Bhajan                                     Lal

(supra) is for the same reason inapplicable. We do not

think   that   it    is   a   case   where    we    could   hold   that

proceeding is manifestly attended with mala fide and/or

where the proceeding is maliciously instituted with an

ulterior motive for wrecking vengeance on the appellant

with a view to spite him due to private and personal

grudge.

44. Next, we must consider whether there is any express

legal bar engrafted in any provisions of the Code or

the   Act   governing     the   field   to    the   institution     and

continuance     of    the     proceedings.     It     is    here   that

provisions of Section 79 of Information Technology Act,

2000 would assume significance.

45. Section 79 of the Information Technology Act, as it

was enacted originally, read as follows:


            “Chapter XII


                                 34
          NETWORK SERVICE PROVIDERS NOT TO BE LIABLE
          IN CERTAIN CASES

          79. Network Service Providers not to be
          liable in certain cases:
          For the removal of doubts, it is hereby
          declared that no person providing any
          service as a network service provider
          shall be liable under this Act, rule or
          regulations made thereunder for any third
          party information or data made available
          by him if he proves that the offence or
          contravention was committed without his
          knowledge or that he had exercised all due
          diligence to prevent the commission of
          such offence or contravention.

          Explanation. For the purpose of this
          Section,
          (a) “network service provider” means an
              intermediary;
          (b) “third party information” means any
              information dealt with by a network
              service provider in his capacity as
              an intermediary.”
                                (Emphasis supplied)


46. The    said   provision    was   substituted   by   the

Information Technology (Amendment) Act of 2008. It came

into force on 27.10.2009. It reads as follows:

          “79    Exemption    from   liability     of
          intermediary in certain cases:

          (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in
              any law for the time being in force
              but subject to the provisions of sub-


                              35
    sections (2) and (3), an intermediary
    shall not be liable for any third
    party     information,     data,    or
    communication link hosted by him.
(2) The provisions of sub-section (1)
    shall apply if-
    (a) the function of the intermediary
        is limited to providing access to
        a communication system over which
        information made available by
        third parties is transmitted or
        temporarily stored; or
    (b) the intermediary does not-
        (i) initiate the transmission,
        (ii) select the receiver of the
             transmission, and
        (iii)    select   or   modify  the
             information contained in the
             transmission

    (c)     the intermediary observes due
          diligence while discharging his
          duties under this Act and also
          observes such other guidelines as
          the   Central    Government    may
          prescribe    in    this     behalf
          (Inserted Vide ITAA 2008)

(3) The provisions of sub-section (1)
shall not apply if-
    (a) the intermediary has conspired or
         abetted   or  aided   or  induced
         whether by threats or promise or
         otherwise in the commission of
         the unlawful act (ITAA 2008)
    (b) upon receiving actual knowledge,
         or on being notified by the
         appropriate Government or its
         agency that any information, data
         or communication link residing in


                   36
                  or   connected   to    a  computer
                  resource    controlled    by   the
                  intermediary is being used to
                  commit the unlawful act, the
                  intermediary        fails       to
                  expeditiously remove or disable
                  access to that material on that
                  resource without vitiating the
                  evidence in any manner.

                  Explanation:- For the purpose of
              this section, the expression "third
              party    information"    means   any
              information    dealt  with    by  an
              intermediary in his capacity as an
              intermediary.”


47. The High Court has contrasted the earlier avtar of

Section 79 with the newly inserted provisions and held

as follows:

        “4. … In the case on hand, in spite of the
        1st respondent issuing notice bringing the
        petition about dissemination of defamatory
        material and unlawful activity on the part
        of A-1 through the medium of A-2, the
        petitioner/A-2 did not move its little
        finger to block the said material or to
        stop dissemination of the unlawful and
        objectionable material. Therefore, the
        petitioner/A-2 cannot claim any exemption
        either under Section 79 of the Act as it
        stood originally or Section 79 of the Act
        after the amendment which took effect from
        27.10.2009. the present case in the lower
        court was instituted in January, 2009
        relating to the offences which are being


                           37
         perpetrated from 31.07.2009 onwards, i.e.,
         since long prior to the amendment of the
         said provision.”


48. The discussion of the High Court regarding Section

79 reveals the following findings:

a. The earlier version of Section 79 kept at bay the

  impact of other laws. After the amendment, Section 79

  affords exemption from any other law in respect of

  the   third-party   information     subject     to   sub-Section

  (2) of Section 79.

b. Intermediary under the extant provisions of Section

  79 cannot seek refuge in Section 79 if it failed to

  expeditiously    remove     or     disable     access   to     the

  objectionable   material     or     unlawful    activity     even

  after receiving actual knowledge thereof.

c. In the case, it is found that in spite of the first

  respondent      complaint         issuing      notice        about

  dissemination of defamatory information on the part

  of A1-accused no.1-appellant did not move its little

  finger to block the material or to stop dissemination

  of unlawful and objectionable material. This conduct


                              38
  of    the    appellant       disentitles          it    from    claiming

  protection      either       under     the       provisions      of     the

  unamended      Section      79   or    under      Section      79     after

  substitution.         The     offence        in     this       case     was

  perpetuated from 31.07.2008 onwards since long prior

  to the substitution.


49. At this juncture, it is apposite that we took a

deeper look at what the Government of India has to say

about    Section 79.

50. Section 79 is a safe harbour provision. Internet

intermediaries     give       access    to    host,      disseminate      and

index   content,    products       and       services     originated       by

third   parties    on    the    internet.       There     are    different

kinds of intermediaries. They include:

              i. Internet       Access       and     Service      Provider

                (ISP). Examples are given in this category

                of Airtel, Vodafone, BSNL among others;

              ii. Data Processing and Web Hosting Providers.

                Examples include Godaddy and Bigrock;

                                   39
        iii. Internet Search Engines and Portals like

            Google, Yahoo and Binge;

        iv. E-mail      hosts     like    gmail    (Google)    and

            yahoomail;

         v. Then there are instant messaging platforms

            such     as     Whatsapp,     Facebook      Messenger,

            Skype, etc.;

        vi. E-commerce          intermediaries       where      the

            platforms do not take title to the goods

            being    sold    like     Amazon   India,   Flipkart,

            etc.;

        vii. Internet       Payment      Systems     and     Mobile

            Walleters like Paytm, etc.;

       viii. There    are     also     participative       internet

            platforms.


51. The 2008 amendment introduced Chapter XII to the

Information Technology Act. The amendment was in the




                                40
background of the decision of the Delhi High Court in

Avinash Bajaj v. State (NCT of Delhi)20.

52. Intermediaries stand on a different footing being

only facilitators of exchanges of information or sales.

Prior to the amendment, the exemption provision under

Section         79     did      not        exist   and,      therefore,       an

intermediary would have been liable for any third-party

information or data made available by him as seen in

the Bazeed (supra).              After the amendment, intermediary

is not liable under any Act if it satisfied certain

requirements as detailed in Section 79.

53. After            referring        to     the   decision      in     Shreya

Singhal (supra), the Government of India has understood

the position at law to be that Section 79 stands read

down       to   mean     that    an        intermediary      would    need    to

takedown        information           only      upon    receiving       actual

knowledge that a court order has been passed to remove

or   disable         certain     material       and    not   otherwise.      The

further stand of the Government of India is thus there

is     a    recognition         that       intermediaries      and     neutral
20
       116/2005 DLT 427


                                           41
platforms      are    only   facilitating         information.     It    is

further    pointed     out   on   behalf     of    the   Government      of

India that the interpretation placed by this Court in

Shreya Singhal (supra) was not available to the High

Court when it passed the impugned order in this case.

Shreya Singhal makes it clear that an intermediary’s

liability will not arise unless it failed to take down

material    upon there       being actual         knowledge by     court

order or government communication. This safeguard has

been put in place to avoid chilling affect on free

speech. The intermediaries would, if a contrary view is

taken, stand elevated to the status of super censors

and   denude    the    internet    of   it   unique      feature    of   a

democratic medium for all to publish, access and read

any and all kinds of information.

54. Owing to the special unique characteristic of the

internet, intermediaries are not in a position to know

about a content which is posted on its platforms by

itself and, therefore, the strict liability principle

cannot be made applicable to internet intermediaries.



                                  42
It is the specific stand of the Government of India

that even pre-amendment, an intermediary could not know

the contents of what is posted on its website and,

therefore, be held liable in the absence of a takedown

order by a court or Governmental Agency.

55. The Government of India, it is also noticed, has

perceived a distinction between blocking under Section

69A   of   the   Information   Technology   Act   and   takedown

under   Section 79    of the    Information Technology     Act.

Section 69A reads as follows:


           “69A, Power to issue directions for
           blocking   for   public  access   of   any
           information through any computer resource

           (1) Where the Central Government or any of
           its officer specially authorized by it in
           this behalf is satisfied that it is
           necessary or expedient so to do in the
           interest of sovereignty and integrity of
           India, defence of India, security of the
           State, friendly relations with foreign
           states or public order or for preventing
           incitement to the commission of any
           cognizable offence relating to above, it
           may subject to the provisions of sub-
           sections (2) for reasons to be recorded in
           writing, by order direct any agency of the
           Government or intermediary to block access


                               43
         by the public or cause to be blocked for
         access    by   public    any   information
         generated, transmitted, received, stored
         or hosted in any computer resource.

         (2) The procedure and safeguards subject
         to which such blocking for access by the
         public may be carried out shall be such as
         may be prescribed.

         3) The intermediary who fails to comply
         with the direction issued under sub-
         section (1) shall be punished with an
         imprisonment for a term which may extend
         to seven years and also be liable to
         fine.”


56.     It is pointed out that the grounds under which

Government issues directions for blocking information

are   limited   and   confined     to   matters    relating     to

national security, public order and the like. The power

does not expand to blocking any case of defamation,

contempt of court, etc. A blocking order under Section

69A cannot be passed for criminal defamation as it does

not fall under the scope of Section 69A.          Therefore, if

a party is aggrieved by posting of a defamatory content

on website, he must seek recourse to the court process

for   adjudication.   The   matter   can   be   directed   to   be




                              44
removed or access disabled under Section 79(3) of the

Information Technology Act. Since, the Court process

can be long drawn, the aggrieved party may seek an

interim order before a competent court.

57. In    fact,    the    learned      Senior   Counsel    for    the

appellant did not, as such, canvass the matter on the

basis of Section 79 before it was substituted. However,

we deem it proper to delineate its scope in view of the

fact that if there is an express legal bar to attach

criminal liability upon the appellant under the Act, it

would become a matter of jurisdiction. It is also the

stand taken by the Government of India that there be no

liability on the intermediary under Section 79 of the

Act prior to the substitution as we have set out herein

before.

58. It    must    be   noted   that     stand   of   the   appellant

primarily   has    been    that   the    appellant    is    not   the

intermediary in this case and the intermediary in this

case is Google LLC. The arguments have been otherwise

addressed by the appellant on the basis though that



                                  45
even    proceeding       on   the       basis    that    the    appellant   is

treated as an intermediary, the complaint against the

appellant, cannot be allowed to proceed.

59. On the question as to whether Section 79, as it

stood prior to the substitution, would provide a shield

to     an   intermediary,          we    would     enter       the   following

findings.

60. In our view, Section 79, before its substitution,

exempted the Network Service Provider, which is defined

as an intermediary, from liability under the Act, Rules

or Regulations made thereunder in regard to any third-

party       information       or    data        made    available     by    him

provided the Service Provider:

     1. Proves    that     the     offence        or     contravention      was

       committed without his knowledge;

     2. The Service Provider proves that he had exercised

       all due diligence to prevent the commissioning of

       such offences or contraventions.

61. This provision may be contrasted with the later

avtar       of   Section      79    of     the     Act     consequent      upon


                                        46
substitution with effect from 27.10.2009. Sub-Section

(1) of Section 79, in unambiguous words, declares by

way of a non-obstante clause that in spite of anything

contained in any law which is in force, though subject

to   the   provisions     of    sub-Sections   (2)     and    (3),   an

intermediary would not be liable for any third-party

information, data or communication link hosted by him.

The conditions are set out in sub-Section (2).



62. As we have noticed, the scope of Section 79, before

its substitution, was confined to confer immunity from

liability in regard to an offence under the Act or the

Rules     or Regulations       qua third-party     action or     data

made available. In this regard, it must be noticed that

Chapter XI of the Act deals with the offences. Sections

65 to 67B deals with various offences under the Act.

This is besides Sections 71, 72A, 73 and 74 of the Act.

Section     79   falls   under    Chapter   XII.   Therefore,        the

scheme of the Act would also indicate that Section 79,

as   it    was   prior   to     the    substitution,    was    indeed



                                  47
confined     to   the    liability         of   the       Network       Service

Provider    arising      out    of   the    provisions        of    the       Act

besides, no doubt, Rules and Regulations, and it was

not, in short, a bar to the complaint under Section

500 of the IPC being launched or prosecuted.

63. The complaint relates, in short, to a period, much

prior to the substitution of Section 79 of the Act,

which    ultimately      took    place      only      with    effect         from

27.10.2009. The court, in Shreya Singhal (supra), was

not   considering       the    provisions       of    Section      79    as    it

stood before the substitution on 27.10.2009 which is

what the High Court has focussed on to find that it was

not open to the appellant to seek shelter under Section

79. No doubt, there are certain observations which have

been made by the High Court regarding notice to the

petitioner, which we will dwell upon.

64. We     may,   in    fact,    notice     another        aspect       of    the

matter. Even, proceeding on the basis that Section 79

should engage us any further, we cannot be oblivious to

an    integral    feature       of   Section         79    prior        to    its



                                     48
substitution. As we have noted, the Law Giver has given

protection from liability not unconditionally. It is

for the Service Provider to prove that the offence or

contravention was committed without his knowledge. He

is   also   to    prove    that      he    has    exercised     all    due

diligence to prevent the commission of such offence or

contravention. We will, for the purpose of argument,

assume that the offence or contravention could relate

to even Section 500 of the IPC. Even then, for the

protection given by the provisions, as it stood at the

time when the offence alleged against the appellant was

allegedly committed by it, to apply, it would become

incumbent upon the appellant to prove that the offence

or   the    contravention         was      committed      without      its

knowledge and that it had taken all due diligence to

prevent     the     commission            of     such     offence       or

contravention.     It     may   be    at       once   noticed   that    in

reality the scope of Section 79 of the Act, prior to

the substitution, was limited to granting exemption to

the Network Service Provider from any liability under



                                  49
the    Act,   Rules   or   Regulations     made    thereunder,    no

doubt,   in regard      to third-party     information or     data

available by him. The commission of an offence under

Section 500 of the IPC, would not be a liability under

the Act or a Rules, or Regulations made under the Act.

However, it is undoubtedly true that the scope of the

protection      afforded      to    the   intermediary      stands

remarkably expanded with the substituted provisions of

Section 79 coming into force, no doubt, subject to the

conditions attached thereunder and as explained by this

Court in Shreya Singhal (supra).

65. The Government of India, no doubt, has contended

that    the   High    Court   did   not   have    the   benefit   of

judgment of this Court in Shreya Singhal (supra). We

may notice that what is considered in Shreya Singhal

(supra) was Section 79 after substitution. There was a

challenge mounted to the constitutionality of Section

79. This Court held as follows, inter alia:

              “120. One of the petitioners' counsel
          also assailed Section 79(3)(b) to the
          extent that it makes the intermediary


                                   50
exercise its own judgment upon receiving
actual knowledge that any information is
being used to commit unlawful acts.
Further, the expression “unlawful acts”
also   goes    way   beyond  the   specified
subjects delineated in Article 19(2).
     121. It must first be appreciated
that Section 79 is an exemption provision.
Being an exemption provision, it is
closely    related    to  provisions   which
provide for offences including Section 69-
A. We have seen how under Section 69-A
blocking can take place only by a reasoned
order    after    complying   with   several
procedural safeguards including a hearing
to the originator and intermediary. We
have also seen how there are only two ways
in which a blocking order can be passed—
one by the Designated Officer after
complying with the 2009 Rules and the
other by the Designated Officer when he
has to follow an order passed by a
competent court. The intermediary applying
its own mind to whether information should
or should not be blocked is noticeably
absent in Section 69-A read with the 2009
Rules.

    122. Section 79(3)(b) has to be read
down to mean that the intermediary upon
receiving actual knowledge that a court
order has been passed asking it to
expeditiously remove or disable access to
certain   material  must  then   fail  to
expeditiously remove or disable access to


                  51
that material. This is for the reason that
otherwise it would be very difficult for
intermediaries like Google, Facebook, etc.
to act when millions of requests are made
and the intermediary is then to judge as
to which of such requests are legitimate
and which are not. We have been informed
that in other countries worldwide this
view has gained acceptance, Argentina
being in the forefront. Also, the Court
order and/or the notification by the
appropriate Government or its agency must
strictly conform to the subject-matters
laid down in Article 19(2). Unlawful acts
beyond what is laid down in Article 19(2)
obviously cannot form any part of Section
79. With these two caveats, we refrain
from striking down Section 79(3)(b).

    123. The learned Additional Solicitor
General informed us that it is a common
practice worldwide for intermediaries to
have user agreements containing what is
stated in Rule 3(2). However, Rule 3(4)
needs to be read down in the same manner
as Section 79(3)(b). The knowledge spoken
of in the said sub-rule must only be
through the medium of a court order.
Subject    to    this,    the  Information
Technology    (Intermediaries  Guidelines)
Rules, 2011 are valid.
       xxx             xxx         xxx
    124.3. Section 79 is valid subject to
Section 79(3)(b) being read down to mean
that an intermediary upon receiving actual


                  52
         knowledge from a court order or on being
         notified by the appropriate government or
         its agency that unlawful acts relatable to
         Article 19(2) are going to be committed
         then fails to expeditiously remove or
         disable    access   to    such   material.
         Similarly,   the  Information   Technology
         “Intermediary Guidelines” Rules, 2011 are
         valid subject to Rule 3 sub-rule (4) being
         read down in the same manner as indicated
         in the judgment.”


66. The Court also was considering the challenge to the

provisions of the Information Technology (Intermediaries

Guidelines)   Rules,   2011   (hereinafter   referred    to   as

‘the Rules’ for short). The Rules were brought into

force after 2011. It was made under Section 87 of the

Act. Rule 3 provides for due diligence to be observed

by the intermediary. It is obliged to publish the Rules

and   Regulations   and   the   Privacy   Policy   and    User

Agreement. The intermediary is to intimate the user not

to use certain matter which include defamatory matter.

Rule 3(3) of the Rules provided that the intermediary

was not to knowingly host or publish any information,

inter alia, contained, as specified in sub-Rule (2).



                              53
Thus,   under   the   Rules,    the    intermediary    could      not

knowingly host or publish information which was, inter

alia,   defamatory.   Rule     3(4)    of   the   Rules,   read   as

follows:


           “3. Due diligence to he observed by
           intermediary — The intermediary shall
           observe following due diligence while
           discharging his duties, namely : —
             xxx                 xxx                   xxx
           (4) The intermediary, on whose computer
           system the information is stored or hosted
           or published, upon obtaining knowledge by
           itself or been brought to actual knowledge
           by an affected person in writing or
           through   email   signed   with   electronic
           signature about any such information as
           mentioned in sub-rule (2) above, shall act
           within   thirty    six   hours   and   where
           applicable, work with user or owner of
           such    information    to    disable    such
           information that is in contravention of
           sub-rule (2). Further the intermediary
           shall   preserve    such   information   and
           associated records for at least ninety
           days for investigation purposes,”


67.     It is clear that the entire discussion came to be

made in the context of the challenge to the provisions

of Section 79 after substitution. No doubt, there are



                                54
observations, which have been made, the effect of which

we shall deal with to the extent that is relevant to

this case. What is relevant is, for the purpose of

deciding this case, we are of the view that this may

not be the case where there is an express legal bar in

the    form    of    Section    79    of     the   Act    prior     to     its

substitution. We cannot be unmindful of the fact that

we    are   dealing    with     a    criminal      complaint        and    the

question to be considered is whether the offence, as

alleged in the complaint, was committed or not.


WHETHER “RAJIV THAPAR AND OTHERS V. MADAN LAL KAPOOR”
WOULD APPLY?

68. The       next   question,       which    we   must       address      is,

whether the appellant can persuade us to decide the

question as to whether the appellant is an intermediary

and it is Google LLC which is the intermediary.

69. “Intermediary”        has       been   defined       in   the    Act    in

Section 2(1)(ua)(w), which reads as follows:



                “2(1)(ua)(w).         "intermediary",   with
            respect  to   any         particular  electronic


                                     55
         records, means any person who on behalf of
         another   person   receives,    stores   or
         transmits that record or provides any
         service with respect to that record and
         includes   telecom    service    providers,
         network   service    providers,    internet
         service providers, web-hosting service
         providers, search engines, online payment
         sites, online-auction sites, online-market
         places and cyber cafes;”


70. Section 2(1)(ua)(za) defines the word “originator”:


             “2(1)(ua)(za) "originator" means a
         person who sends, generates, stores or
         transmits   any  electronic  message;  or
         causes any electronic message to be sent,
         generated, stored or transmitted to any
         other person but does not include an
         intermediary;”


71. Section 2(1)(b) defines the word ‘addressee’ and it

reads as follows:

         “(b) "addressee" means a person who is
         intended by the originator to receive the
         electronic record but does not include any
         intermediary;”


72. According to the appellant, this is a case where

the High Court erred in not considering and answering

the   question   as   to   whether   the   appellant   is   an



                             56
intermediary or not. It is the case of the appellant

that the appellant is only the subsidiary of Google LLC

which     is    its   parent       company.      It   is   his    further

submission that the High Court ought to have permitted

the appellant to draw support from terms of service

regarding Google Groups which convincingly establishes

that the services were provided by Google LLC and not

the appellant. In this regard, reliance is placed on

judgments of this Court in Rajiv Thapar and others v.

Madan Lal Kapoor21 and HMT Watches Ltd. v. M.A. Abida

and another22. It is contended that Google Groups terms

of service is a document of sterling value being of

indisputable character. What is produced before us is

last    update    seen     dated    10.12.2010.       Under   the      same,

there     was    reference         to     responsibilities        of     the

originator        under        the        head        ‘content’         your

responsibilities. It is submitted that the originator,

not Google, which will be liable for the content that

will be uploaded, posted, disseminated, etc., which is

21
        (2013) 3 SCC 330
22
        (2015) 11 SCC 776


                                     57
collectively said to be posted via the service. Under

appropriate conduct, it is stated as follows:


        “5. Appropriate Conduct
        You agree that you are responsible for
        your own conduct and communications while
        using the Service and for any consequences
        thereof. You agree to use the Service only
        to send and receive messages and material
        that are legal, proper and related to the
        particular Group. By way of example, and
        not as limitation, you agree that when
        using the Service, you will not:
         defame, abuse, harass, stalk, threaten
          or otherwise violate the legal rights
          (such as rights of privacy and
          publicity) of others;
         post   any    inappropriate,    defamatory,
          infringing,     obscene,     or    unlawful
          Content;
         post  any Content that infringes any
          patent,    trademark,   copyright,    trade
          secret or other proprietary right of
          any party (the “Rights”), unless you
          are owner of the Rights or have the
          permission of the owner to Post such
          Content;
         post   messages that promote pyramid
          schemes, chain letters or disruptive
          commercial messages or advertisements,
          or anything else prohibited by the
          Group owner;
         download   any file Posted by another
          user of a Group that you know, or
          reasonably should know, that cannot be
          legally distributed in such manner;
         impersonate another person or entity,
          or   falsify    or   delete    any   author


                           58
    attributions, legal or other proper
    notices or proprietary designations or
    labels of the origin or source of
    software or other material contained in
    a file that is Posted;
   restrict or inhibit any other user from
    using and enjoying the Service;
   use the Service for any illegal or
    unauthorised purpose;
   remove any copyright, trademark or
    other     proprietary     rights    notices
    contained in or on the Service;
   interfere with or disrupt the Service
    or servers or networks connected to the
    Service, or disobey any requirements,
    procedures, policies or regulations of
    networks connected to the Service;
   use     any     robot,     spider,     site
    search/retrieval application, or other
    device to retrieve or index any portion
    of the Service or collect information
    about    users    for   any    unauthorised
    purpose;
   submit Content that falsely expresses
    or   implies    that   such    Content   is
    sponsored or endorsed by Google;
   create user accounts by automated means
    or under false or fraudulent pretenses;
   promote     or    provide     instructional
    information about illegal activities or
    promote physical harm or injury against
    any group or individual;
    or
   transmit any viruses, worms, defects,
    Trojan horses, or any items of a
    destructive nature.

International users agree to comply with
their own local rules regarding online
conduct and acceptable content, including


                     59
           laws regulating the export of data to the
           United   States   or   your  country   of
           residence.

           While Google prohibits such conduct and
           Content in connection with the Service,
           you   understand   and  agree   that   you
           nonetheless may be exposed to such conduct
           and/or Content and that you use the
           Service at your own risk.”


73.   We    may   also   notice,   under   the   head    “Propriety

Rights”, “Google’s Rights”, it is mentioned as follows:

           “6. Proprietary Rights

           Google’s Rights
           Google and its affiliates and licensors
           own and retain all rights in the Service,
           which     contains     proprietary     and
           confidential information that is protected
           by applicable intellectual property and
           other laws. Except as expressly authorised
           by Google, you may not copy, modify,
           publish, transmit, distribute, perform,
           display   or    sell   any   of   Google’s
           proprietary information. “GOOGLE GROUPS”,
           are trademarks of Google.”


74. We     may    also   notice    the   following      under   head

“Advertisements”:


           “9. Advertisements
           Google Groups is an ad-supported service.
           As such, we display advertisements and


                                  60
        promotions on the Service. The manner,
        mode and extent of advertising by Google
        on the Service are subject to change. You
        agree that Google shall not be responsible
        or liable for any loss or damage of any
        sort incurred as a result of any such
        dealings or as the result of the presence
        of such advertisers on the Service.”


75. Also, we noticed the conditions under the heading

“Disclaimer of Warranties”:

        “11. Disclaimer of Warranties
        Google and its affiliates, licensors,
        partners,   suppliers,    consultants   and
        agents (“Google Entities”) disclaim any
        and all responsibility or liability for
        the   accuracy,    content,   completeness,
        legality, reliability, or operability or
        availability of information or Content
        displayed on the Service. The Google
        Entities    disclaim     any     and    all
        responsibility and liability for your
        conduct and for the conduct of others
        using the Service.

        THE SERVICE, AND ALL CONTENT, INFORMATION
        (INCLUDING,    WITHOUT    LIMITATION,  ANY
        INFORMATION   OR    CONTENT   OBTAINED  OR
        ACCESSED THROUGH THE SERVICE), PRODUCTS
        AND SERVICES INCLUDED THEREIN ARE PROVIDED
        “AS IS,” WITH NO WARRANTIES WHATSOEVER.
        THE GOOGLE ENTITIES EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM TO
        THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW AND
        EXPRESS, IMPLIED AND STATUTORY WARRANTIES,
        INCLUDING,    WITHOUT    LIMITATION,   THE
        WARRANTIES OF MERHCNTABILITY, FITNESS FOR
        A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT


                          61
          OF PROPRIETARY RIGHTS. Some states do not
          allow the exclusion or limitation of
          implied    warranties,   so   the   above
          disclaimers and exclusions may not apply
          to you.

          YOU AGREE THAT YOUR USE OF THE SERVICES
          ARE ENTIERLY AT YOUR OWN RISK”


76. It is further submitted that the terms of service

would constitute the entire agreement between the party

and Google. Under the “Google Groups Content Policy”,

it was brought to our notice by the learned Counsel for

the appellant that Google has a zero-tolerance policy

towards   the   content    that      exploits       children.      Google

retains   the   power     to    remove      hate    speech     which   is

explained   as content         that promotes        hate or    violence

towards   groups   based       on   race,    ethnicity,       religion,

disability,     gender,    age,     veteran      status,      or   sexual

orientation/gender      identity.        There     is   an   exhortation

against threatening, harassing or bullying other people

using Groups. There is again the condition that groups

cannot be used to encourage any illegal activities or

to promote dangerous and illegal activities.



                                    62
77. As far as decision in Rajiv Thapar(supra), relied

upon     by    appellant,    is     concerned,        it   involved     the

following facts. The appellant therein was married to

the deceased. The deceased fell ill and was admitted in

the hospital. She was diagnosed with as suffering from

malaria. After she was discharged, she again fell ill.

The Echocardiography confirmed presence of a large hole

in her heart. She succumbed to a massive heart attack.

Suspecting poisoning, father of the deceased filed the

complaint. The Medical Board found death due to cardiac

decompensation.      The     CFSL      Report    also      indicated     no

common    poison.    The    Metropolitan        Magistrate,       who   was

approached by the father of the deceased, committed the

case     to    the   Sessions       Court       who    discharged       the

appellant-accused. The High Court, however, set aside

the order. It was in these circumstances, this Court

took the following view in regard to the manner in

which    the    matter     must   be     approached        when   a   party

approaches High Court under Section 482 of the Cr.PC:




                                    63
     “28. The High Court, in exercise of
its jurisdiction under Section 482 CrPC,
must make a just and rightful choice. This
is   not   a   stage    of   evaluating     the
truthfulness    or     otherwise      of    the
allegations       levelled         by       the
prosecution/complainant        against      the
accused. Likewise, it is not a stage for
determining   how    weighty    the    defences
raised on behalf of the accused are. Even
if the accused is successful in showing
some    suspicion    or    doubt,     in    the
allegations       levelled         by       the
prosecution/complainant,      it    would    be
impermissible to discharge the accused
before trial. This is so because it would
result    in   giving    finality      to   the
accusations       levelled         by       the
prosecution/complainant, without allowing
the prosecution or the complainant to
adduce evidence to substantiate the same.
The converse is, however, not true,
because even if trial is proceeded with,
the accused is not subjected to any
irreparable   consequences.      The    accused
would still be in a position to succeed by
establishing his defences by producing
evidence in accordance with law. There is
an endless list of judgments rendered by
this Court declaring the legal position
that     in     a      case      where      the
prosecution/complainant       has      levelled
allegations bringing out all ingredients
of the charge(s) levelled, and have placed
material before the Court, prima facie


                    64
evidencing   the   truthfulness   of   the
allegations levelled, trial must be held.

    30. Based on the factors canvassed in
the   foregoing   paragraphs,   we   would
delineate the following steps to determine
the veracity of a prayer for quashment
raised by an accused by invoking the power
vested in the High Court under Section 482
CrPC:

  30.1.Step one: whether the material
relied upon by the accused is sound,
reasonable, and  indubitable i.e.  the
material is of sterling and impeccable
quality?

  30.2.Step two: whether the material
relied upon by the accused would rule out
the assertions contained in the charges
levelled against the accused i.e. the
material is sufficient to reject and
overrule the factual assertions contained
in the complaint i.e. the material is such
as would persuade a reasonable person to
dismiss and condemn the factual basis of
the accusations as false?

  30.3.Step three: whether the material
relied upon by the accused has not been
refuted by the prosecution/complainant;
and/or the material is such that it cannot
be justifiably refuted by the prosecution/
complainant?


                  65
          30.4.Step four: whether proceeding with
        the trial would result in an abuse of
        process of the court, and would not serve
        the ends of justice?

           30.5. If the answer to all the steps is
        in    the    affirmative,   the    judicial
        conscience of the High Court should
        persuade   it   to   quash  such   criminal
        proceedings in exercise of power vested in
        it under Section 482 CrPC. Such exercise
        of power, besides doing justice to the
        accused, would save precious court time,
        which would otherwise be wasted in holding
        such a trial (as well as proceedings
        arising therefrom) specially when it is
        clear that the same would not conclude in
        the conviction of the accused.”
                                (Emphasis supplied)


78. The court also declared that the High Court must be

fully satisfied about the material and that material

produced by the accused must be such that the defence

is based on sound, reasonable and indisputable facts.

79. In HMT Watches (supra), the complaint was one under

Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881. In

the said case, this Court faulted the High Court in

having expressed its view on disputed questions of fact



                          66
in a petition under Section 482 to conclude that an

offence was not made out. Factual matters which were

not admitted between the parties could not form the

basis for the High Court to interfere.


80. In       regard      to    the        attempt,    on    the    part       of   the

appellant, to persuade us to follow the judgment of

this Court in Rajiv Thapar (supra), we felt dissuaded

from       undertaking        the     said       course     on    the    following

reasoning. It is true that a perusal of the petition

before       the   High        Court       reveals     that       appellant        has

purported to take up the contention that the website is

the    service      offered          by    the     Google    Inc,       the    parent

company      of    the    appellant          and    that    the    services        are

provided by the parent company directly to the users.

It    is    also   the        case    of    the     appellant      that       service

provided on the website is free and the end user can

post a blog without making any payment. The terms of

service and content policy on the website is also seen

produced. Impugned order of the High Court, however,




                                            67
reveals      that    the     court        understood   the     arguments

apparently of the appellant as follows:


                 “2) It is contended by the senior
             counsel appearing for the petitioner/A-2
             that actions of intermediaries such as
             Google Inc., which is a service provider
             providing platform for end users to upload
             content, does not amount to publication in
             law and consequently the question of
             holding such intermediaries liable for
             defamation does not arise. Senior counsel
             appearing   for   the  petitioner   placed
             reliance on Section 79 of the Information
             Technology Act, 2000 (in short, the Act)
             in support of this contention.”



81. The       defence      raised     by     the   appellant,        which,

according to him, consisted of documents in the form of

the conditions stipulated by the parent company in its

conditions, are disputed. To expatiate, according to

the respondent, the said contention is factual. There

is a case also that they are produced without complying

with the mandate of Section 65B of the Indian Evidence

Act, 1872. In this regard, reliance is placed on Anvar

P.V.    v.    P.K.   Basheer        and    others23.   There    is     also


23
       (2014) 10 SCC 473


                                     68
definite case for the respondent that appellant cannot

be allowed to disown its role in the Google Groups

being       part    of   the    common      economic     entity.      It    is

contended by the complainant that the appellant did not

clarify by way of answer to the query by the court as

to     what     activities       they       indulge     in     India.      The

Memorandum of Association is referred to contend that

the    main     objects    include       providing      network      related

products or services and applications. It is the case

of    the    complainant       further      that   in   fact   the    entire

operations         of Google    Economic Entity,          the users        are

provided digital space purportedly free but are made to

part    with their        personal data        as consideration.           The

said     data       is   used     for       generating       advertisement

revenues. The onus would be on the appellant if it

seeks to dispel this fact to lead evidence to show that

the appellant does not have any role to plea in the

activities of Google. As to whether, it is Google INC,

which    is    responsible       for    the   Google     Groups      and   the

appellant is not, it is contended by the complainant,



                                       69
is a matter for evidence. It cannot be determined on

the basis of photocopies of documents filed with the

paper books before this Court.

82. We have noticed that the appellant appears to have

produced the Google Groups conditions even before the

High   Court.        It    is    also   appeared       to    have    taken      the

contention        that     it     is    Google        Groups    which      is    an

intermediary.

83. In this connection, it is our view that this is not

a   case        where      the    High       Court      could       be   invited

particularly          in    the     light        of    the     stand     of     the

complainant, as noticed, to decide in favour of the

appellant       by    holding      that     it    is   the     parent    company

which is the actual intermediary and not appellant. We

are not inclined in this regard to borrow any findings

from the Civil Court in proceedings under Section 482

of the Cr.PC. We must remind ourselves also that the

proceedings          are   at    the    stage     where      the    High      Court

appear     to    have      entered      a   finding     in     favour      of   the

appellant in the Second Appeal filed under Section 100



                                        70
of   the   Code    of     Civil    Procedure,       1908    (hereinafter

referred to as ‘the CPC’, for short). However, it is

common     case    that     both    parties      have      filed    Review

Petitions.    In    other    words,      the    matter     has     not   yet

attained finality.


84. In     this    regard,    the       question,     however,      arises

whether    the complainant         accepts this         version of       the

appellant    or    disputes       it.    We   would   think      that    the

complainant does not accepts the actual role of the

appellant. The nature of operations of the appellant,

according to the appellant, is not clear. What is the

actual     relationship      between      the   Parent      Company      and

appellant, is, according to the complainant, a matter

for decision on evidence being taken. In other words,

the contention of the appellant that appellant is not

an intermediary and, hence, cannot be fastened, at any

rate,    with criminal       liability, is        subject matter          of

dispute.


WHETHER “SHARAT BABU DIGUMARTI V. GOVERNMENT (NCT OF
DELHI)” COMES TO THE RESCUE OF THE APPELLANT?


                                    71
85. There is need to also address an argument based on

the decision of this Court in Sharat Babu Digumarti v.

Government (NCT of Delhi)24.


86. Section 81 of the Act reads as follows:


                “81. Act to have overriding effect.-
            The provisions of this Act shall have
            effect       notwithstanding      anything
            inconsistent therewith contained in any
            other law for the time being in force.”



87. This Court, in Sharat Babu (supra), was dealing

with a complaint under Sections 292 and 294 of the IPC

and Section 67 of the Act. The central issue which

arose     for   consideration   was,   whether   the   appellant

therein, who stood discharged under Section 67 of the

Act, could be proceeded under Section 292 of the IPC.

Section 292 of the Code makes it an offence to sell,

hire, distribute, etc., any obscene object, whatsoever.

Other offences relating to dealing in obscene objects,

also form the subject matter of the Section. The court

24
        (2017) 2 SCC 18


                                72
referred to the definition of “electronic record” under

Section 2(1)(t) of the Act and found it was a question

relating to electronic record. Thereafter, the court

referred    to    Section   67   of   the    Act   which   penalises

publishing       or   transmitting       obscene     material     in

electronic    form.    Section    67B   punishes     and   penalises

publishing       or   transmitting      of    material     depicting

children in sexually explicit act, etc., in electronic

form.


88. The argument of the appellant, thus, is seen noted

as hereunder:


               “29. We    have   referred    to   the
           aforesaid aspect as it has been argued by
           Dr Singhvi that the appellant is protected
           under the said provision, even if the
           entire allegations are accepted. According
           to him, once the factum of electronic
           record is admitted, Section 79 of the IT
           Act must apply ipso facto and ipso jure.
           The learned Senior Counsel has urged
           Section 79, as the language would suggest
           and keeping in view the paradigm of
           internet world where service providers of
           platforms do not control and indeed cannot
           control the acts/omissions of primary,
           secondary and tertiary users of such
           internet    platforms,     protects    the


                                 73
            intermediary till he has the actual
            knowledge. He would contend that the Act
            has created a separate and distinct
            category called “originator” in terms of
            Section 2(1)(z)(a) under the IT Act to
            which the protection under Section 79 of
            the IT Act has been consciously not
            extended.    Relying   on    the    decision
            in Shreya                   Singhal [Shreya
            Singhal v. Union of India, (2015) 5 SCC
            1 : (2015) 2 SCC (Cri) 449] , he has urged
            that the horizon has been expanded and the
            effect of Section 79 of the IT Act
            provides protection to the individual
            since the provision has been read down
            emphasising on the conception of actual
            knowledge. Relying on the said provision,
            it is further canvassed by him that
            Section   79    of   the    IT    Act   gets
            automatically   attracted    to   electronic
            forms of publication and transmission by
            intermediaries, since it explicitly uses
            the non obstante clauses and has an
            overriding effect on any other law in
            force. Thus, the emphasis is on the three
            provisions, namely, Sections 67, 79 and
            81, and the three provisions, according to
            Dr   Singhvi,    constitute     a   holistic
            trinity.”



89. Thereafter, the court referred to Section 81 which

we   have    extracted,   and   finally,   the   court   held   as

follows:


                “32. Section 81 of the IT Act also
            specifically provides that the provisions


                                74
         of    the    Act    shall   have    effect
         notwithstanding    anything   inconsistent
         therewith contained in any other law for
         the time being in force. All provisions
         will have their play and significance, if
         the alleged offence pertains to offence of
         electronic record. It has to be borne in
         mind that IT Act is a special enactment.
         It has special provisions. Section 292 IPC
         makes offence sale of obscene books, etc.
         but once the offence has a nexus or
         connection with the electronic record the
         protection and effect of Section 79 cannot
         be ignored and negated. We are inclined to
         think so as it is a special provision for
         a specific purpose and the Act has to be
         given effect to so as to make the
         protection effective and true to the
         legislative intent. This is the mandate
         behind Section 81 of the IT Act. The
         additional protection granted by the IT
         Act would apply.”


90. We are not inclined to accept this argument based

on the dicta laid down in Sharat Babu (supra). It is

true   that    the     offences   were    alleged     to    have   been

committed     at   a   time   when     Section   79   had    not   been

substituted, as we notice that cognizance was taken on

14.02.2006. We may notice the reasoning in paragraph

37, which reads as follows:


                                  75
            “37. The aforesaid passage clearly
        shows that if legislative intendment is
        discernible that a latter enactment shall
        prevail, the same is to be interpreted in
        accord with the said intention. We have
        already referred to the scheme of the IT
        Act and how obscenity pertaining to
        electronic record falls under the scheme
        of the Act. We have also referred to
        Sections 79 and 81 of the IT Act. Once the
        special provisions having the overriding
        effect do cover a criminal act and the
        offender, he gets out of the net of IPC
        and in this case, Section 292. It is apt
        to note here that electronic forms of
        transmission are covered by the IT Act,
        which is a special law. It is settled
        position in law that a special law shall
        prevail over the general and prior laws.
        When the Act in various provisions deals
        with obscenity in electronic form, it
        covers the offence under Section 292 IPC.”


91. We, in fact, notice that this Court was persuaded

to place reliance on Section 79 of the Act which was

inserted as a result of the substitution with effect

from 27.10.2009. The provisions of Section 79 are not

seen expressly extracted or referred to by the court.

92. Section 79, even prior to its substitution, did

protect the intermediary from liability for offences

under the Act. This was a case where the appellant was



                          76
sought to be prosecuted under Section 292 of the IPC

even though he had been discharged under Section 67 of

the Act. The offence was one which properly fell within

the scope of Section 67 in so far as the offending

matter,    was    contained          in    an    electronic     record,    as

defined. Therefore, it could be reasoned that it having

been   found,     he    had    not    committed         the   offence   under

Section 67 of the Act, having regard to Section 81, the

prosecution under Section 292 of the IPC, may not stand

since special provisions have overriding effect. That

explains    the        statement          of    the     law   contained    in

paragraph 37 of the judgment, viz., “when the Act in

various provisions deals in obscenity in other forms,

it covers the offence under Section 292 of the IPC.

93. The premise of the judgment of this Court in Sharat

Babu   (supra)         was    that    what       was     involved   was    an

electronic record within the meaning of the Act. The

appellant    in    the       said    case       stood    discharged     under

Section 67 of the Act. The reasoning, which has been

upheld by the Court, was that the special provisions



                                      77
contained   in    the   Act    would     override    and    cover     a

criminal act and he would get out of the net of the IPC

which in the said case was Section 292. To repeat, the

appellant stood discharged under Section 67 of the Act,

and therefore, could not be prosecuted under Section

292 of the IPC.

94. In this context, we must examine whether there is

any provision in the Act which deals with the offence

of   defamation   committed     in    the   electronic     form.     In

fact, in this regard, it is relevant to notice the

judgment of this Court in Shreya Singhal (supra).

95. Incidentally,       the    learned      Senior   Counsel        who

appeared for the appellant also appeared in the said

case for some of the parties and in the summary of

arguments   raised      by    him    wherein,   inter      alia,     he

contended that the existing provisions of the IPC and

of the Act, i.e., Section 67, 66B, 66C, 66D, 66E and

66F adequately covers various offences. In regard to

sending defamatory messages by e-mail, the provision

under the Act was shown as Section 66A and it was



                                78
contended that the provision in the IPC corresponding

to Section 66A was Section 500 of the IPC. This Court

dealt with the matter and held, inter alia, as follows:


          “45. “Defamation” is defined in Section
        499 of the Penal Code as follows:
             “499. Defamation.—Whoever, by words
          either spoken or intended to be read,
          or     by    signs     or     by     visible
          representations, makes or publishes any
          imputation     concerning     any     person
          intending to harm, or knowing or having
          reason to believe that such imputation
          will harm, the reputation of such
          person, is said, except in the cases
          hereinafter excepted, to defame that
          person.
             Explanation   1.—It    may    amount   to
          defamation to impute anything to a
          deceased person, if the imputation
          would harm the reputation of that
          person if living, and is intended to be
          hurtful to the feelings of his family
          or other near relatives.
             Explanation   2.—It    may    amount   to
          defamation    to   make    an     imputation
          concerning a company or an association
          or collection of persons as such.
             Explanation 3.—An imputation in the
          form of an alternative or expressed
          ironically, may amount to defamation.
             Explanation 4.—No imputation is said
          to harm a person's reputation, unless

                           79
           that imputation directly or indirectly,
           in the estimation of others, lowers the
           moral or intellectual character of that
           person, or lowers the character of that
           person in respect of his caste or of
           his calling, or lowers the credit of
           that person, or causes it to be
           believed that the body of that person
           is in a loathsome state, or in a state
           generally considered as disgraceful.”

           46. It   will   be  noticed   that   for
         something to be defamatory, injury to
         reputation is a basic ingredient. Section
         66-A does not concern itself with injury
         to reputation. Something may be grossly
         offensive and may annoy or be inconvenient
         to somebody without at all affecting his
         reputation. It is clear, therefore, that
         the section is not aimed at defamatory
         statements at all.”
                                (Emphasis supplied)


96. At   any   rate,   Section   66A   has   been   declared

unconstitutional by this Court. Apart from Section 66A,

there is obviously no other provision in the Act which

deals with defamation in the electronic form. In that

way, the subject of defamation would be governed by

Section 500 of the IPC. Therefore, the reliance placed




                            80
on Shreya                                 Singhal (supra) is without

any basis.



ASSUMING APPELLANT IS AN INTERMEDIARY: A BRIEF OVERVIEW
OF THE LAW OF DEFAMATION

97. The next question is proceeding on the basis that

it is the appellant which is the intermediary within

the meaning of the Act whether the appellant could be

foisted with liability in a case where appellant is

being proceeded against in a criminal case for having

committed       the    offence      under          Section    500    read     with

Section    120B       of   the     IPC.       In    this     regard,    let      us

consider    the       contentions        of    the     complainant.         It   is

first     contended        that    the    appellant’s          role     in       the

control of Google Groups as publisher is a question of

fact. It is pointed out that Google has control on the

content    being      uploaded      by    the       authors.    It     has   full

freedom    to    remove      any    content          without    reference        to

anyone much less court orders. Google itself recognizes

that defamation is not an accepted conduct and takes an

undertaking from its users. Google cannot claim to be


                                     81
mere   passive        technology      service     provider       which    is

promoting     free speech.        It provides          various tools      to

create/edit/modify the content apart from uploading the

content.      It   is    contended     that      for    the     purpose   of

defamation, Google may have some defence till such time

till   they    are      not   aware   of   the    defamatory      content.

However, once they are made aware of the defamatory

content,      then,      by   allowing     the    same     to    continue,

refusing to exercise control as platform provider, it

becomes fully liable for the consequences of publishing

defamatory material. Being a technology giant, is not a

license to break laws. It does not provide immunity

from the liability under the IPC.

98. There is an attempt by the appellant before us to

contend that even taking the averments in the posts

which have been uploaded by the first accused, it would

not amount to defamation. The essence of the offence of

defamation, as defined in Section 499, would consist of

words either spoken or intended to be read or by signs

or by visible representations making or publishing any



                                      82
imputation concerning any person with the intention to

harm or knowing or having reason to believe that such

imputation    will   harm   the    reputation   of   that   person

subject to the Exceptions and Explanations which follow

the main provision. Explanation II declares that it may

amount to defamation to make an imputation concerning a

company or an association or collection of persons as

such. Explanation IV reads as follows:

            “Explanation 4.—No imputation is said
        to harm a person’s reputation, unless that
        imputation directly or indirectly, in the
        estimation of others, lowers the moral or
        intellectual character of that person, or
        lowers the character of that person in
        respect of his caste or of his calling, or
        lowers the credit of that person, or
        causes it to be believed that the body of
        that person is in a loathsome state, or in
        a state generally considered as disgrace-
        ful.”

99. It is undoubtedly true that the first Exception

exempts from criminal liability, statements which are

true and which are required for public good. It reads

as follows:

            “First Exception.—Imputation of truth
        which public good requires to be made or
        published.—It is not defamation to impute


                                  83
           anything which is true concerning any
           person, if it be for the public good that
           the   imputation   should   be   made  or
           published. Whether or not it is for the
           public good is a question of fact.”

100. The   9th   Exception   may   be   relevant.   It   reads   as

follows:

               “Ninth Exception.—Imputation made in
           good faith by person for protection of his
           or other’s interests.—It is not defamation
           to make an imputation on the character of
           another provided that the imputation be
           made in good faith for the protection of
           the interests of the person making it, or
           of any other person, or for the public
           good. Illustrations
           (a) A, a shopkeeper, says to B, who
           manages his business—“Sell nothing to Z
           unless he pays you ready money, for I have
           no opinion of his honesty”. A is within
           the exception, if he has made this
           imputation on Z in good faith for the
           protection of his own interests.
           (b) A, a Magistrate, in making a report of
           his   own  superior   officer,  casts   an
           imputation on the character of Z. Here, if
           the imputation is made in good faith, and
           for the public good, A is within the
           exception.     Tenth    Exception.—Caution
           intended for good of person to whom
           conveyed or for public good.—It is not
           defamation to convey a caution, in good
           faith, to one person against another,
           provided that such caution be intended for


                               84
              the good of the person to whom it is
              conveyed, or of some person in whom that
              person is interested, or for the public
              good.    COMMENTS    Imputation    without
              publication In section 499 the words
              “makes or publishes any imputation” should
              be interpreted as words supplementing to
              each other. A maker of imputation without
              publication is not liable to be punished
              under that section; Bilal Ahmed Kaloo v.
              State of Andhra Pradesh, (1997) 7 Supreme
              Today 127.”



101. We would not think that it would be appropriate,

proper or legal for the court to accept the submission

of    the     appellant    that    the       post    in   question     do   not

constitute defamation. This is for the reason that such

an exercise would be out of bounds in the facts of this

case, in particular, in a petition filed under Section

482     of     the     Cr.PC.     As    to      whether     it   constitute

defamation and as to whether it falls in any of the

Explanations/Exceptions,               would    be    all   matters    to    be

decided by the court.

102. The      question     which       remains       is   everything    being

assumed in favour of the complainant, viz., that the

first        accused    has     posted         defamatory     material       by


                                       85
uploading it on the platform and the appellant is an

intermediary providing the said platform, the argument

of the appellant is that even then, the appellant is

not liable. We have noticed the stand of the Government

of   India also.        An intermediary          provides a        platform.

Millions    of    posts    are    uploaded        every     day.    We     have

noticed     the    definition         of    words       “originator”        and

“addressee”.      The    case    of   the       appellant    is    that    the

originator    in   this    case,      the       first   accused,     is    the

author of the alleged defamatory material. Unlike an

article which is written by person ‘A’ and which is got

published    in    a     newspaper         or   publication        which     is

brought out by a person ‘B’, the case of the appellant

is that the first accused is both the originator, and

therefore, the author and he is also the publisher.

Assuming everything against the appellant as aforesaid,

the offence if at all has been committed, may have been

committed by the first accused. The appellant seeks to

wash its hands off the contents of the article as also

the publication. The responsibility for authoring the



                                      86
material and publishing(uploading) lies at the doorstep

of the fist accused. The appellant has no role at all

in this matter. In such circumstances, it is the case

of the appellant that having regard to the role played

by   the    appellant,        again    assuming   that     it    is   the

intermediary, involved in this case, it cannot be made

liable. It is the further case of the appellant that at

the most, liability may arise, if a party aggrieved by

material, which can be understood as electronic record

under the Act, approaches the appellant armed with a

court order or an authority directing it to remove the

offending       posts.    Till      then,   the   appellant      is   not

liable, in law, to take steps against the material.

This is apart from pointing out that it is incumbent

upon the complaining party to assist the intermediary

by providing it with the URL so that the matter could

be located and action taken. In fact, in this case, it

is pointed out that the appellant, as a good gesture,

upon receipt of complaint, written to parent company,

which,     in   fact,    is   the     intermediary   and   the    parent



                                      87
company    wrote     back    seeking      URL.   The    actions       of   the

appellant have been bonafide. It has no role to play in

the commission of the alleged offence. It is in this

context that appellant would contend that in law an

intermediary cannot and should not be designated as the

Competent Authority to decide upon the question as to

whether        any   material      falls    foul       of    the     law    of

defamation leading to the unilateral interference with

the     free     exchange     of   ideas     though         the    internet.

Internet, it is pointed out, is universal, and in the

words of the Government of India, which supports the

appellant in this Court, a democratic medium for the

free exchange of ideas. Any conferment of unilateral

power    upon the      intermediary would          introduce what           is

called the chilling effect.


SECTION        499   OF     THE    IPC:    “MAKES       OR        PUBLISHES”:

DISTINCTION




                                    88
103. It is important that we notice the indispensable

ingredients of the offence under Section 499 of the

IPC. Section 499 reads as follows:


         “499. Defamation.—Whoever, by words either
         spoken or intended to be read, or by signs
         or by visible representations, makes or
         publishes any imputation concerning any
         person intending to harm, or knowing or
         having   reason   to  believe   that  such
         imputation will harm, the reputation of
         such person, is said, except in the cases
         hereinafter   expected,  to   defame  that
         person.”


104. Under the said provision, the Law Giver has made

the   making   or   publishing    of   any   imputation   with   a

requisite intention or knowledge or reason to believe,

as provided therein, that the imputation will harm the

reputation of any person, the essential ingredients of

the offence of defamation. What is the meaning to be

attached to the words “making of an imputation” and

“publishing of an imputation”? This question has been

set out with clarity in a recent judgment which is




                                 89
reported in Mohd. Abdulla Khan v. Prakash K.25. It was

held as follows:


           “10. An analysis of the above reveals
         that    to   constitute   an   offence    of
         defamation it requires a person to make
         some   imputation   concerning   any   other
         person;
              (i) Such imputation must be made
           either
                   (a) With intention, or
                   (b) Knowledge, or
                   (c) Having a reason to believe
           that such an imputation will harm the
           reputation of the person against whom
           the imputation is made.
              (ii) Imputation could be, by
                  (a)   Words,   either  spoken  or
                  written, or
                  (b) By making signs, or
                  (c) Visible representations
              (iii) Imputation could be either made
              or published.
                The difference between making of an
              imputation and publishing the same
              is:
                If ‘X’ tells ‘Y’ that ‘Y’ is a
              criminal — ‘X’ makes an imputation.
              If ‘X’ tells ‘Z’ that ‘Y’ is a
              criminal    —   ‘X’   publishes    the
              imputation.


25
     (2018) 1 SCC 615


                           90
                The essence of publication in the
              context   of   Section    499   is  the
              communication of defamatory imputation
              to persons other than the persons
              against whom the imputation is made.
              [Khima Nand v. Emperor, 1936 SCC OnLine
              All 307 : 1937 Cri LJ 806; Amar
              Singh v. K.S. Badalia, 1964 SCC OnLine
              Pat 186 : (1965) 2 Cri LJ 693]”


WHETHER SECTION 499 OF THE IPC EXHAUSTIVE OF CRIMINAL

LIBEL?


105. We may incidentally also notice an earlier judgment

of this Court in this context reported in M.C. Verghese

v.   T.J.    Poonan   and       another26.    The    daughter    of    the

appellant therein, who was married to the respondent

(T.J.     Poonan),    received       certain        letters   from     her

husband which the appellant-father-in-law complained as

containing      defamatory        statements        against   him.     The

Magistrate     took the         view that     being a    communication

between     husband       and    wife,   it    did     not    amount   to

defamation as there was no publication since in the eye

of law, as the husband and wife are one. He also took

the view that the communication between the spouses was
26
        (1969) 1 SCC 37


                                    91
privileged    under Section    122 of   the Indian     Evidence

Act, 1872. This Court reversed the view taken by the

High Court which had upheld the view of the Magistrate

though in the interregnum the Magistrate’s view did not

find favour with the learned Sessions Judge. This Court

took the view that the principle, the husband and wife

are one in the eye of law, has not been adopted in its

full force under our system and certainly not in our

criminal     jurisprudence    (see   paragraph   7).   It   is,

thereafter, that the Court made following observations:



               “10. It must be remembered that the
           Penal Code, 1860 exhaustively codifies the
           law relating to offences with which it
           deals and the rules of the common law
           cannot be resorted to for inventing
           exemptions   which   are   not   expressly
           enacted.

               11. In Tiruvengadda    Mudali     v.
           Tripurasundari     Ammal     [ILR 49 Mad
           728] a Full Bench of the Madras High
           Court observed that the exceptions to
           Section 499 IPC, must be regarded as
           exhaustive as to the cases which they
           purport to cover and recourse can be had
           to the English common law to add new
           grounds of exception to those contained


                               92
           in the statute. A person making libellous
           statements in his complaint filed in
           Court is not absolutely protected in a
           criminal proceeding for defamation, for
           under the Eighth Exception and the
           illustration    to    Section   499    the
           statements are privileged only when they
           are   made   in  good   faith.  There   is
           therefore authority for the proposition
           that in determining the criminality of an
           act under the Penal Code, 1860 the Courts
           will not extend the scope of special
           exceptions by resorting to the rule
           peculiar to English common law that the
           husband and wife are regarded as one.”


106. No    doubt,   the    Court      did   not   express   a     final

opinion.

107. In    the   light    of   this     discussion,   we    may    only

reiterate that the criminal offence of defamation under

Section 499 of the IPC is committed when a person makes

a defamatory imputation which, as explained in Mohd.

Abdulla Khan (supra), would consist of the imputation

being conveyed to the person about whom the imputation

is made. A publication, on the other hand, is made when

the imputation is communicated to persons other than

the   persons about       whom the      defamatory imputation        is


                                   93
conveyed.          A        person,      who        makes       the     defamatory

imputation, could also publish the imputation and thus

could be the maker and the publisher of a defamatory

imputation. On the other hand, a person may be liable

though   he    may          not   have       made    the    statement         but    he

publishes it.

108. In this case, the case of the appellant appears to

be   that     it       is    indisputable           that    it    is    the       first

defendant     who       has       not   only    authored         the    statements

containing imputations which are allegedly defamatory

but it is he who has also published it. In this regard,

the parties before us have drawn our attention to case

law emanating from courts other than in India.


THE DEFAMATION ACTS IN                       ENGLAND:       A    LOOK        AT    SOME
DECISIONS UNDER THE SAME

109. Before        we       proceed     to    consider      the       case    law,    a

bird’s overview of the law of defamation, as contained

in United Kingdom, may be appreciated. The Defamation

Act of 1952, as contained in Sections 4,7,8,9(2) and

9(3) and Sections 16(2) and 16(3) came to be repealed



                                         94
by the Defamation Act of 1996. The Defamation Act of

2013   further      amended    the      law   by   declaring    that     a

statement is not defamatory unless its publication has

caused    or   is   likely    to     cause    serious   harm    to    the

reputation of the claimant which, in the case of body

that trades for profit, it was made clear that the

serious harm would not arise unless there is caused

serious   financial     loss       or    likelihood    of   such     loss.

Truth was declared as a defence. Certain defences were

introduced.      Considerations          of   public    interest      was

introduced in regard to operators of website. Section 5

was enacted, which reads as follows:


          “5. Operators of websites
          (1) This section applies where an action
              for defamation is brought against the
              operator of a website in respect of a
              statement posted on the website.
          (2) It is a defence for the operator to
              show that it was not the operator who
              posted the statement on the website.
          (3) The   defence  is   defeated              if     the
              claimant shows that—




                                    95
    (a) it was not possible for the
        claimant to identify the person
        who posted the statement,
    (b) the claimant gave the operator a
        notice of complaint in relation
        to the statement, and
    (c) the operator failed to respond to
        the   notice   of   complaint  in
        accordance with any provision
        contained in regulations.
(4) For the purposes of subsection (3)
    (a), it is possible for a claimant to
    “identify” a person only if the
    claimant has sufficient information
    to bring proceedings against the
    person.


(5)Regulations may—
    (a) make provision as to the action
        required to be taken by an
        operator of a website in response
        to a notice of complaint (which
        may in particular include action
        relating   to  the   identity  or
        contact details of the person who
        posted the statement and action
        relating to its removal);
    (b) make provision specifying a time
        limit for the taking of any such
        action;
    (c) make provision conferring on the
        court  a   discretion  to  treat
        action taken after the expiry of


                  96
        a time limit as having been taken
        before the expiry;
    (d) make any other provision for the
        purposes of this section.
(6) Subject to any provision made by
    virtue of subsection (7), a notice of
    complaint is a notice which—
    (a) specifies the complainant’s name,
    (b) sets out the statement concerned
        and explains why it is defamatory
        of the complainant,
    (c) specifies where on the website
        the statement was posted, and
    (d) contains such other information
        as    may    be  specified   in
        regulations.
(7) Regulations may make provision about
    the circumstances in which a notice
    which is not a notice of complaint is
    to   be  treated  as   a  notice   of
    complaint for the purposes of this
    section or any provision made under
    it.
(8) Regulations under this section—
    (a) may make different provision for
        different circumstances;
    (b) are to be     made   by   statutory
        instrument.
(9) A   statutory  instrument containing
    regulations under this section may
    not be made unless a draft of the
    instrument has been laid before, and

                 97
            approved by a resolution     of,   each
            House of Parliament.
        (10) In this section “regulations” means
             regulations made by the Secretary of
             State.
        (11) The defence under this section is
             defeated if the claimant shows that
             the operator of the website has acted
             with   malice  in   relation  to   the
             posting of the statement concerned.
        (12) The defence under this section is not
             defeated by reason only of the fact
             that the operator of the website
             moderates the statements posted on it
             by others.”


110. There are other provisions which need not detain

us. We may, no doubt, also notice the meaning of the

word “publish”, inter alia, as contained in Section 15

of the Defamation Act, 2013:


        “15. … “publish” and “publication”, in
    relation to a statement, have the meaning they
    have for the purposes of the law of defamation
    generally;”


111. The Act was to apply only to England and Wales.

Certain provisions were to apply to Scotland also.




                          98
112. It may be noticed, however, that the Defamation

Act, 1996, as indeed the Defamation Act, 1952, provided

as follows:

113. In Section 20(2) of the Defamation Act, 1996, it is

stated that nothing in the said Act affected the law

relating        to   criminal   libel.    There   is   a   similar

provision in the Defamation Act, 1952. Section 17(2) of

the Defamation Act, 1952 also declared that nothing in

the Act affected the law relating to criminal libel.

114. Criminal libel, however, came to be repealed by the

Coroners and Justice Act, 2009.

115. The complainant would refer to judgment in Byrne v.

Deane27    as    also   Payam   Tamiz    v.   Google   Inc.28.   The

appellant, on the other hand, relied upon the judgment

of the Queens Bench in Bunt v. Tilley29. There is also

reference by the respondent to the judgment in Godfrey

v. Demon Internet Limited30. Let us now take these cases


27
     (1937) 1 KB 818
28
     (2013) EWCA CB 68
29
     (2006) EWHC 407
30
     (2001) QB 201


                                 99
in the chronological order and the context in which the

matter arose and was decided.

116. In Byrne (supra), the facts may be noticed. The

complainant was a member of a Golf Club. The defendants

were the proprietors and the female defendant was also

the    Secretary.       The    rules    of   the   Club,    inter       alia,

prohibited posting of any notice or placard in the Club

premises without the consent of the Secretary. There

were certain automatic gambling machines kept by the

defendants for the use of the members of the Club. On a

complaint,     the      machines     were    removed     from     the   Club

premises. Alleging that a defamatory verse was put up

on    the   wall   of    the    Club,    the   plaintiff     brought      an

action in libel alleging publication by the defendants

of matter defamatory to him. In short, it was his case

that the words were meant to convey that it was the

plaintiff who reported the matter to the Police which

undermined his loyalty to the members of the Club. The

learned Judge, who heard the civil action for damages,

gave    judgement       to     the   plaintiff.     He     came    to    the



                                     100
conclusion     that    the     matter   complained    of   was

defamatory. He further found that since the defendants

allowed the notice to remain on the walls of the Club,

over which the defendants have complete control, the

publication of it was made with their approval and they

had, therefore, published that libel. As regards the

question     whether   there     was    publication   by   the

defendants, the Court, by a majority, took the view

that there was publication. Greer L.J. held as follows:

             “… It was a proprietary club. The
           difference between a proprietary club and
           an ordinary club is that in a proprietary
           club the proprietor or proprietors remain
           in possession of the club. The two
           defendants are the lessees of the club and
           they are the occupiers of the club
           premises, and the walls are their walls,
           and   in my    judgment they    allowed a
           defamatory statement to be put up on their
           walls and to remain on their walls in a
           position in which it could be read by
           anybody   who    came   into   the    club.
           Undoubtedly it must have been so read not
           only by people who were members of the
           club but by people who were not members of
           the club, and who only came in possibly
           for a drink with a member or to play a
           game of some sort or another.

                               101
           Quite a number of illustrations have
         been put forward as illustrations which
         give rise to similar questions to the
         question that arises in this case. In my
         judgment the nearest case put forward is
         this: assume that a defamatory poster was
         hung upon the garden rail of Mr. Smith's
         house which adjoins the street so that the
         defamatory statement can be read by every
         one who passes the house. Could it not be
         said that by allowing that poster to
         remain hanging upon the garden rail of his
         house the occupier of the house was taking
         part in the publication of that poster to
         people   passing  his   house,   when  the
         simplest operation in the world, namely,
         cutting the rope by which the poster was
         hung upon the rail and taking the poster
         away, would have made the poster from that
         time innocuous? In my judgment the two
         proprietors   of  this   establishment   by
         allowing the defamatory statement, if it
         be defamatory, to rest upon their wall and
         not to remove it, with the knowledge that
         they must have had that by not removing it
         it would be read by people to whom it
         would convey such meaning as it had, were
         taking part in the publication of it. …”



117. Slesser L.J. wrote a separate opinion wherein he

took   the   view   that   complainant   had   failed   to   show

publication against the male defendant. With regard to

the female defendant, it was held as follows:



                              102
                “…   With   regard   to  the   female
           defendant I think it may be said —
           although it is perhaps extending the
           evidence of publication rather further
           than has ever been done in the past in any
           case which I have been able to discover —
           that    there   was   some   evidence   of
           publication on the part of the female
           defendant. ...”


118. Greer L.J., further held as follows:


               “No notice or placard, written or
           printed, shall be posted in the club
           premises without the consent of the
           secretary,” and her evidence is to this
           effect, that she knew that this alleged
           libel had been placed on the wall of the
           club. Her view was that she could see no
           harm in it. She said: “I read it. It
           seemed to me somebody was rather annoyed
           with somebody.” I think having read it,
           and having dominion over the walls of the
           club as far as the posting of notices was
           concerned, it could properly be said that
           there was some evidence that she did
           promote and associate herself with the
           continuance of the publication in the
           circumstances after the date when she knew
           that the publication had been made.”


119. Greene L.J., took the view that there was evidence

of publication by both the defendants. It was held as

follows:


                            103
     “Now, on the substantial question of
publication, publication, of course, is a
question of fact, and it must depend on
the circumstances in each case whether or
not publication has taken place. It is
said that as a general proposition where
the act of the person alleged to have
published a libel has not been any
positive act, but has merely been the
refraining from doing some act, he cannot
be guilty of publication. I am quite
unable    to  accept   any  such   general
proposition. It may very well be that in
some circumstances a person, by refraining
from    removing   or   obliterating   the
defamatory matter, is not committing any
publication at all. In other circumstances
he may be doing so. The test it appears to
me is this: having regard to all the facts
of the case is the proper inference that
by not removing the defamatory matter the
defendant really made himself responsible
for its continued presence in the place
where it had been put?


    I may give as an example of a case
which would fall on one side of the line:
suppose somebody with a mallet and a
chisel   carved   on  the   stonework   of
somebody's house something defamatory, and
carved it very deeply so that the removal
of it could only be effected by taking
down the stonework and replacing it with
new stonework. In a case of that kind it
appears to me that it would be very
difficult, if not indeed impossible, to


                 104
           draw the inference that the volition of
           the owner of the house had anything to do
           with the continued presence of that
           inscription   on   his   stonework.   The
           circumstance that to remove it would
           require very great trouble and expense
           would be sufficient to answer any such
           aspersion.
               On the other hand you have a case
           such as the present where the removal of
           this particular notice was a perfectly
           simple and easy thing to do involving no
           trouble whatsoever. The defendants, having
           the power of removing it and the right to
           remove it, and being able to do it without
           any difficulty at all, and knowing that
           members of the club when they came into
           the room would see it, I think must be
           taken to have elected deliberately to
           leave it there. The proper inference,
           therefore, in those circumstances it seems
           to me is that they were consenting parties
           to its continued presence on the spot
           where it had been put up. That being so it
           seems to me that they must be taken to
           have consented to its publication to each
           member who saw it. …”
                                   (Emphasis supplied)



120. In Godfrey (supra), the case was a civil action.

The complainant was a Lecturer in Physics, Mathematics

and Computer Science resident in England. The defendant

was   an   internet   service   provider.   On   the   13 th   of


                            105
January, 1997, some unknown person made a post in the

U.S.A. in news group soc.culture.thai and stores which

was carried on by the defendant. For about a fortnight,

the posting was available to be read by its customers.

According to the complainant, it was defamatory, inter

alia,   to   him.   It   purported   to    emanate   from   the

complainant though his name was misspelt. Complainant

claimed it to be a forgery. He sent a letter to the

Managing Director of the defendant-company about the

posting being a forgery and disowning responsibility of

the same, he requested removal of the same from the

server. It was not disputed by the defendant that it

could   have obliterated    the post      after receiving   the

request. The court examined the matter thereafter, on

the basis of the governing law, viz., Defamation Act,

1996. The following discussion is relevant:



         “The law
           The governing statute is the Defamation
         Act 1996. Section 1, which is headed




                             106
“Responsibility     for     publication”,
provides:
    (1)   In   defamation  proceedings  a
  person has a defence if he shows that—
  (a) he was not the author, editor or
  publisher of the statement complained
  of, (b) he took reasonable care in
  relation to its publication, and (c) he
  did not know, and had no reason to
  believe, that what he did caused or
  contributed to the publication of a
  defamatory statement.”
  It should be noted that for the defence
to succeed (a) and (b) and (c) have to be
established by the defendant. Section 1
continues:
    “(2) For this purpose … ‘publisher’
  [has] the following meanings, which are
  further explained in subsection (3) …
  ‘publisher’    means    a    commercial
  publisher, that is, a person whose
  business is issuing material to the
  public, or a section of the public, who
  issues    material    containing    the
  statement   in  the   course   of  that
  business.
    “(3) A person shall not be considered
  the author, editor or publisher of a
  statement if he is only involved—(a) in
  printing, producing, distributing or
  selling printed material containing the



                  107
statement … (c) in processing, making
copies of, distributing or selling any
electronic medium in or on which the
statement is recorded, or in operating
or providing any equipment, system or
service by means of which the statement
is retrieved, copied, distributed or
made available in electronic form … (e)
as the operator of or provider of
access to a communications system by
means   of   which  the   statement   is
transmitted, or made available, by a
person over whom he has no effective
control.   In    a   case   not   within
paragraphs (a) to (e) the court may
have regard to those provisions by way
of analogy in deciding whether a person
is to be considered the author, editor
or publisher of a statement …
  “(5) In determining for the purposes
of this section whether a person took
reasonable care, or had reason to
believe that what he did caused or
contributed to the publication of a
defamatory statement, regard shall be
had   to—(a)    the   extent  of   his
responsibility for the content of the
statement or the decision to publish
it, (b) the nature or circumstances of
the publication, and (c) the previous
conduct or character of the author,
editor or publisher.”



               108
          In my judgment the defendants were
        clearly not the publisher of the posting
        defamatory of the plaintiff within the
        meaning of section 1(2) and (3) and
        incontrovertibly can avail themselves of
        section 1(1)(a). However the difficulty
        facing the defendants is section 1(1)(b)
        and (c). After 17 January 1997, after
        receipt of the plaintiff's fax, the
        defendants knew of the defamatory posting
        but chose not to remove it from their
        Usenet news servers. In my judgment this
        places the defendants in an insuperable
        difficulty so that they cannot avail
        themselves of the defence provided by
        section 1.”
                                (Emphasis supplied)



121. The court purported to follow the judgment in Byrne

(supra) and held as follows:


            “… The defendants chose to store
        soc.culture.thai postings within their
        computers. Such postings could be accessed
        on that newsgroup. The defendants could
        obliterate and indeed did so about a
        fortnight after receipt.”
                               (Emphasis supplied)




                          109
122. The    court      finally      concluded       that    the    plaintiffs

summons     to    strike       out     parts       of    the      defence     as

disclosing       no    sustainable         defence      which     was   to   the

effect that in common law, they were not publishers of

the   internet        posting.       The     plaintiff’s        summons      was

allowed to strike out the defence.

123. Now,    we       may    turn    to     Bunt     (supra)      decided     on

10.03.2006 by the Queen’s Bench Division of the High

Court. Defendants 4 to 6 in the civil proceeding were

internet     service         providers.       The       service     providers

applied under Civil Procedure Rules (CPR) 3.4(2) and

(CPR) 24 for an order to the High Court. The claim of

the   plaintiff        was   based    on     the    allegation      that     the

individual       defendants         published      the     offending      words

through the services provided by the internet service

providers.       In    paragraph      7,    the     Court    considered       it

necessary to consider the defence relied upon by the

parties which, in fact, was admissible for the purpose

of CPR Part 24. The court referred to the decision in




                                      110
Godfrey (supra). The court also held, inter alia, as

follows:


             “15. Publication is a question of fact,
           and it must depend on the circumstances of
           each case whether or not publication has
           taken place: see e g Byrne v Deane [1937]
           1 KB 818, 837–838, per Greene LJ. The
           analogies   that    were   held    to   be
           inappropriate in Godfrey v Demon Internet
           Ltd might yet be upheld where the facts do
           not disclose onward transmission with
           knowledge of the defamatory content. As Dr
           Collins observes in The Law of Defamation
           and the Internet, para 15.43:
                 “Mere conduit intermediaries who
               carry      particular      Internet
               communications from one computer to
               another … are analogous to postal
               services and telephone carriers in
               the sense that they facilitate
               communications, without playing any
               part in the creation or preparation
               of their content, and almost always
               without actual knowledge of the
               content.”
               Such   an   approach   would   tend   to
           suggest   that    at    common   law    such
           intermediaries should not be regarded as
           responsible for publication. Indeed, that
           is    consistent     with    the    approach
           in Lunney where the New York Court of
           Appeals drew an analogy between an ISP and
           a telephone company “which one neither
           wants nor expects to superintend the



                             111
content      of       his       subscriber's
conversations”.

  xxx               xxx                xxx

   22. I have little doubt, however, that
to impose legal responsibility upon anyone
under the common law for the publication
of words it is essential to demonstrate a
degree of awareness or at least an
assumption of general responsibility, such
as has long been recognised in the context
of   editorial  responsibility.   As  Lord
Morris    commented   in McLeod     v   St
Aubyn [1899] AC 549, 562: “A printer and
publisher intends to publish, and so
intending cannot plead as a justification
that he did not know the contents. The
appellant in this case never intended to
publish.” In that case the relevant
publication consisted in handing over an
unread copy of a newspaper for return the
following day. It was held that there was
no sufficient degree of awareness or
intention to impose legal responsibility
for that “publication”.
    23. Of course, to be liable for a
defamatory publication it is not always
necessary to be aware of the defamatory
content,    still   less    of    its   legal
significance. Editors and publishers are
often     fixed      with      responsibility
notwithstanding such lack of knowledge. On
the other hand, for a person to be held
responsible    there    must     be   knowing
involvement in the process of publication
of the relevant words . It is not enough



                  112
that a person merely plays a passive
instrumental role in the process. (See
also    in    this   context Emmens   v
Pottle (1885) 16 QBD 354, 357, per Lord
Esher MR.)


  xxx              xxx               xxx

    30. In so far as the claimant seeks
support    in Godfrey     Demon    Internet
Ltd [2001] QB 201, there are plainly
significant    distinctions.    Morland   J
deprived the ISP in that case from
protection under section 1 of the 1996 Act
because it had continued publication of
the same defamatory statements after Mr
Godfrey's letter had been received, asking
for them to be removed from the Usenet
news server. Here, by contrast, the
claimant    is   relying    upon   separate
postings. In these there is no reference
to batteries, but rather to suggestions of
fraud and “kiddie porn”. There are no
pleaded facts to suggest any knowing
participation by AOL in the publication
of these words.
    31. Ms Phillips accordingly submits
that an ISP should not become liable as a
publisher (especially for postings on a
site which it does not host) simply
because it has been previously told of
wholly   unrelated  allegedly   defamatory
statements, not necessarily even by the
same author. That is a powerful argument
which is relevant, as I have said, both to
the fundamental issue of publication at


                 113
          common law and to statutory defences which
          I shall have to consider later.

             xxx                     xxx               xxx


               36. In all the circumstances I am
          quite prepared to hold that there is no
          realistic prospect of the claimant being
          able   to establish   that any    of the
          corporate defendants, in any meaningful
          sense,   knowingly  participated  in   the
          relevant publications. His own pleaded
          case is defective in this respect in any
          event. More generally, I am also prepared
          to hold as a matter of law that an ISP
          which performs no more than a passive role
          in facilitating postings on the Internet
          cannot be deemed to be a publisher at
          common law. I would not accept the
          claimant's proposition that this issue
          “can only be settled by a trial”, since it
          is a question of law which can be
          determined without resolving contested
          issues of fact.”
                                 (Emphasis supplied)


124. Thereafter,    the       Court    also   referred      to    the

Electronic    Commerce        Directive    (Regulations),        2002.

Still   further,   the    Court   referred    in   detail    to   the

witness   statement      of    the     Director    (Technical     and

Operations) in AOL:


                                 114
    “53. There is no expert challenge to
that evidence, and I have no reason to
doubt   that   it  represents   the   true
position. How then does the claimant
propose to overcome the protection claimed
by the fourth and fifth defendants under
these Regulations? As I have said, he
relies on “simple logic”. He does not rely
on any expert report. I turn therefore to
his case as clarified in the light of the
order of Gray J.
    54. It is necessary to consider para
19 of the amended particulars of claim
which advances a proposition to the effect
that there is an obligation to “gatekeep”
its conduit. The nub of this submission
appears to be contained in sub-paras (i)
and (j):
    “(i) An ISP providing a leased line
  connection   to   a   customer   has   an
  extremely good argument under both the
  Defamation   Act   1996  and   also   the
  Electronic Commerce Directive 2002 that
  it is no more than a ‘conduit’, that it
  has no knowledge or control over what
  passes through that ‘conduit’, and that
  the entire responsibility for what does
  pass through that ‘conduit’ rests with
  the customer who has purchased it, as
  it is the customer and not the ISP who
  acts   as  a    ‘gatekeeper’   for   that
  ‘conduit’. An ISP providing a standard

                 115
domestic consumer or SOHO Internet
access package to a customer has no
possible hope of successfully arguing
that it is a mere ‘conduit’ and
therefore immune from that law, as all
content originates from within their
own network, instead of merely passing
through it in ‘Via’ fashion from one
network to another.
  “(j) In these circumstances not only
is the ISP most definitely acting as
sole ‘gatekeeper’ between the source of
the   defamatory   material    and   the
Internet, they also provide a bundle of
other services … each of which clearly
falls foul of the other provisions of
the Electronic Commerce Directive 2002
which, for example, only allows the
minimum level of cacheing technically
necessary for the underlying technology
of message transmission to function.”

       The notion of a “gatekeeper”
appears to derive from the claimant
himself; it is nowhere to be found in
the regulations.”

xxx              xxx              xxx

    77. In   conclusion,  I   am   quite
  satisfied that the claims against
  these applicants should be struck out
  in accordance with CPR Pt 3, and
  indeed   that   there  would   be   no
  realistic prospect of success on any


               116
                 of the causes of action. Thus the
                 criteria under CPR Pt 24 would also
                 be fulfilled.”


125. At this juncture, it is necessary also to refer to

CPR 3.4(2):


          “Power to strike out a statement of case
          3.4.(2) The court may strike out(GL) a
          statement of case if it appears to the
          court—
          (a) that the statement of case discloses
              no reasonable grounds for bringing or
              defending the claim;
          (b) that the statement of case is an
              abuse of the court’s process or is
              otherwise likely to obstruct the just
              disposal of the proceedings; or
          (c) that there has been a failure to
              comply    with   a    rule,   practice
              direction or court order.”


126. In Richardson (supra), decided on 02.11.2015, the

claimant sought damages in respect of publication on a

Facebook profile and a blog post on the Google blogger

service. The profile and the blog post were purportedly

created by that claimant but the claimant complained

that they were fake being created by an imposter. She

claimed   that    both   were   defamatory   and   violated   her


                                117
right to respect for her private life under Article 8

of the European Convention on Human Rights. Proceedings

were commenced against Facebook U.K. in respect of the

profile    they     described   as    the   Facebook    action     and

against    Google    U.K.   Limited    in   respect    of   the   blog

post, shown as the Google action. The action came to be

dismissed. The principle ground was that the suit was

against the company which was not responsible for the

publication    which meant      that she       had prosecuted      the

case against the wrong defendant. In appeal, she cited

certain issues to be referred to the Court of Justice

of   the   European    Union.   The    Court    referred    to    Bunt

(supra), Godfrey (supra) and Byrne (supra). The Court

held as follows:


               “32. The underlying rationale of the
           decision in Byrne v Deane, that the
           defendants     were    responsible     for
           publication, was that they were in control
           of the notice board and had the power to
           act so as to remove a posting by a third
           party which was unauthorised and wrongful;
           by failing to exercise that power in the
           knowledge of the posting they became
           liable for its continued publication. This
           rationale is plainly capable of applying


                                118
         to some of those involved in the provision
         of internet services and social media
         platforms.”
                                (Emphasis supplied)


127. Thereafter, the Court went on to notice that the

Defamation Act, 1996, mitigated the rigor of the common

law principles by providing a defence for those who by

application     of     those    principles         were   publishers     of

common law. Court further went on to hold that internet

service providers and others are not responsible for

publication     according       to    the    common       law   principles

discussed, that is to say, who were not publishers at

common   law,    had    no     need   to    take     resort     under   the

Defamation      Act.    The     court       went    on     to   refer    to

Defamation      Act,     2013     which      came     into      force    on

01.01.2014. Further, the court held as follows:


             “39. The pleading acknowledges on its
         face that Facebook Inc "owns" the Facebook
         Service and the associated website. It
         appears to adopt the statement in the
         terms of service that Facebook Ireland Ltd
         is, according to the terms of service,
         responsible for processing data outside
         the US and Canada. So far as FBUK is
         concerned, there is an allegation that it


                                     119
           was notified of the offending postings.
           However, the pleading wholly fails to
           advance against FBUK any clear or coherent
           case that it has or had any form of
           control over any aspect of the content of
           the Facebook Service, let alone the
           Profile. The allegation that FBUK was
           notified of the claimant's complaint goes
           beyond what is alleged earlier in the
           pleading, where notification is said to
           have been given to "the Facebook Service"
           and "Facebook". It also appears to be
           factually untenable. But even if it were
           true it could not, in the absence of an
           allegation that FBUK had the power or
           ability to control content, form a proper
           basis     for    the     attribution    of
           responsibility for publication on the
           basis of Byrne v Deane principles.”


128. The court further observed that on the evidence,

the   claimant     had    known     Byrne   (supra)   without    any

prospect of success. In this regard, the court relied

on the evidence led which was to the effect that the

claim was fundamentally defective because Facebook U.K.

Limited had no involvement or responsibility for the

Facebook    service.     The   material     further   was   to   the

effect     that   the    Facebook    service   was    operated    by

Facebook Inc., a corporation existing under the laws of

the United States. Facebook Ireland Limited, a company


                                  120
organized and existing under the laws of the Republic

of Ireland has explained in its terms of service that

users   outside     of    the      United     States     of    America     and

Canada contracted with the Facebook Ireland Limited ….”

129. The material was to the effect that Facebook U.K.

Limited was a separate and distinct entity. Facebook

U.K.    Limited’s        sole      corporate        purpose      is      public

relation, consultancy, and communications in the United

Kingdom.    There       was    also    reference        to    decisions     of

English Courts previously finding that Facebook U.K.

Limited     do    not     control       or     operate        the     Facebook

services.

130. The court took the view that Facebook U.K. Limited

persuaded    it   that        if   there     were   a   trial,      it   would

inevitably demonstrate that it was not responsible. An

attempt was made by the claimant to draw support from

Google Spain SL (supra) decision. The argument appears

to have been that on the basis of the said decision,

Facebook Inc. and its subsidiaries were to be treated

as a single economic unit and Facebook U.K. Limited



                                      121
should also be responsible for the publication of the

profile. The court rejected the contention. One of the

reasons given was that Google                                Spain SL

(supra) was a decision which was based on the scope and

application      of    the   data    protection       directions.     The

court    took    the    view   that       the   decision    in   Google

Spain SL (supra) had nothing to say about the domestic

law of responsibility of publication in defamation. It

was a matter to be determined by the common law and the

Defamation Acts. It was further found that claimant had

misunderstood the relevant aspect of the Google Spain

SL (supra) decision. It was found that the Court of

Justice of European                       Union (CJEU) did not hold

that parent and subsidiary companies are to be treated

as a single unit. Google                              Spain SL (supra)

revolved around the interpretation and application of

Article 4(1) of the Directive. The court went on to

hold    that    the   controller     within     the    meaning   of   the

directives was Google Inc.. In Google Spain SL (supra),

court held that Google Spain was not a data controller.



                                    122
131. On    the    one     hand,    the    appellant        sought   to    draw

support from Richardson (supra) whereas, on the other

hand, the complainant laid store by Google Spain SL

(supra).    We     have    noticed       the    context     in   which    the

questions        arose.     As    far     as     English      decision     is

concerned, it was a civil action. The material before

the    learned     Judge     who     allowed         the   application      by

Facebook U.K. Limited and Google U.K. was apparently in

terms of the procedural laws, perhaps akin to Order VII

Rule 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908. More

importantly, there was material before the court even

in    dismissing     the    claims       on    the   application     of   the

defendants.

132. We are, in this case, concerned with the ambit of

jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Cr.PC. We also

notice that the decision rendered in Google Spain SL

(supra) appears to have turned on the scope of the

directive as noticed in Richardson (supra).


EFFECT OF SUBSTITUTION OF SECTION 79 OF THE ACT




                                    123
133. Section 79 of the Act came to be substituted with

effect   from   27.10.2009.    In      fact,   the   effect   of

substitution of a provision has been dealt with by this

Court in the decision in State of Rajasthan v. Mangilal

Pindwal31:


             “10. Similarly           in Crawford's
         Interpretation of Laws it has been said:

               “Effect of Repeal, Generally.— In the
             first place, an outright repeal will
             destroy   the   effectiveness  of   the
             repealed act in futuro and operate to
             destroy inchoate rights dependent on
             it, as a general rule. In many cases,
             however, where statutes are repealed,
             they continue to be the law of the
             period during which they were in force
             with reference to numerous matters.”
             (pp. 640-641)

             11. The     observations     of    Lord
         Tenterden and Tindal, C.J. referred in the
         above-mentioned   passages   in Craies   on
         Statute   Law also   indicate    that   the
         principle that on repeal a statute is
         obliterated is subject to the exception
         that it exists in respect of transactions
         past and closed. To the same effect is the
         law laid down by this Court. (See: Qudrat
31
     (1996)5 SCC 60/AIR 1996 SC 2181


                              124
Ullah v. Municipal Board [(1974) 1               SCC
          202:(1974) 2 SCR 530], SCR at p. 539)

              12. This means that as a result of
          repeal of a statute the statute as
          repealed ceases to exist with effect from
          the date of such repeal but the repeal
          does not affect the previous operation of
          the law which has been repealed during the
          period it was operative prior to the date
          of such repeal. …”


134. In   this    case,   the    complaint    itself   is        dated

21.01.2009.      The   sworn    statement    of   Deputy    Manager

(Legal) of the complainant is recorded on 27.02.2009.

The sworn statement reads as follows:


              “I am the complainant herein. I am
          working a1s Deputy Manager-legal in the
          complainant company. Complainant company
          manufactures Asbestos Cement sheets and it
          is having various manufacture units throw
          out India. Accused No.1 is a coordinator
          of Ban Asbestos India a Group hosted by
          Accused No.2 and publishes articles in the
          group regarding various issues on 21st
          November, 2008 an article was published in
          A2   group   as   Poisoning   the    system:
          Hindustan times. Complainant was surprised
          to   note   that   article  is    aimed   at
          complainant   company   and  also    against
          renowned politicians of the country i.e.
          Mr. G. Venkat Swamy and Smt. Sonia Gandhi


                                125
where as these people have nothing to do
with the complainant company and again on
31st July, 2008 an article was captioned
A2 Group as Visaka Asbestos Industries
making    gains    both    articles    contains
defamatory      statements       against     the
complainant which is available in the
cyber space in the form of an article for
world   wide    audience.     The   complainant
submits acts and deeds of the accused not
only harm the complainant company but also
integrity     of    the     working      people.
Complainant humbly submits that there are
other groups like Everest Group, Ramco
Group and Birla Group which are also
engaged in the same group. But the accused
No.1 unnecessarily dragged the complainant
and the politicians of the country with
malicious    intention.      The    complainant
further submits that A1 trying to bring
down the complainant image by running hate
campaign against the complainant through
the above said articles. After seeing this
article the complainant has sent notice
dated 10.12.2008 through Registered Post
which A1 returned unserved and the Fax was
received by both the accused. The above
article caused damage to the reputation of
the    complainant.      A1    with    malafide
intention    to    cause     damage    to    the
reputation to complainant has published
such articles. I further submit that the
acts and deeds of the accused being
committed in violation of the fundamental
rights and the action on the part of the
accused    in     making     such    defamatory
statements are premeditated and intended
to lower the image cause defamation in the
eyes of public knowing fully well that the
statements made there in are false and the


                   126
          complainant company and others are being
          targeted by the accused with an hidden
          agenda. It is therefore pay the Hon’ble
          Court to punish the accused according to
          law. …”


135. It is seen that the Magistrate has issued summons

to the appellant vide Annexure P5 calling upon him to

appear before the Court on 09.09.2009.               If that be so,

not    only   was   the    complaint   filed   at    the   time   when

Section 79, in its erstwhile avtar, was in force before

the     present      provision    was     enforced,        cognizance

thereunder was also taken. If that be so, the question

of    exemption     from   liability    may   fall   to    be   decided

under Section 79 of the Act as it stood and not under

the substituted provision.

WHETHER APPELLANT NOT LIABLE AS IT IS ONLY A SUBSIDIARY


136. As far as the question whether being a subsidiary

of Google LLC, the appellant is an independent body

which is not to be mulcted with liability, we would

think it is not a matter to be gone into in Section 482
 127
of    the   Cr.PC.      We    have       noticed     the    stand        of    the

Government of India also as also of the complainant.

FINDINGS OF HIGH COURT REGARDING COMPLAINANT’S NOTICE
AND CONDUCT OF THE APPELLANT

137. In the impugned judgment, the learned Judge has

proceeded to refer to the notices, which was, according

to the complaint, issued, calling upon the appellant to

remove the objectionable post. It is found that the

appellant        did   not   move       its    little      finger    to       stop

dissemination          of    the        unlawful     and        objectionable

material.        Therefore,        the        appellant         cannot        claim

exemption under either Section 79 of the Act, as it

stood originally, or Section 79 of the Act, after the

amendment    which took         effect from          27.10.2009. It            was

further found that as per Section 79(3), as amended,

the   exemption        cannot      be    applied     by     any    court       and

claimed     by    an    intermediary          in   case    an    intermediary

entered into any conspiracy in respect thereof. It is

in this regard that we may notice that there is a

definite    case       for   the   complainant        that       there    was    a

conspiracy between the appellant and the first accused


                                        128
as it is alleged in the complaint that the accused, in

connivance    with   each   other,   have   disseminated   the

information   with   malafide   intention.    There   is   also

reference to Section 120B of the IPC besides Sections

500, 501 read with Section 34 of the IPC. As far as the

view expressed in the impugned order that the appellant

cannot claim any exemption under Section 79 of the Act

after the amendment, is concerned, we are of the view

that it appears to be in the teeth of the pronouncement

of this Court in Shreya Singhal (supra). Section 79, as

substituted, came to be read down to mean that it is

not sufficient if a notice is given to delete a post to

the intermediary. The applicant, who seeks a removal,

must be armed with a court order. In this case, there

is no case for the complainant that when the removal

was sought of the objectionable post, there was any

decision of any competent court or that there was any

directive of a competent authority to remove the post.

Therefore, in the light of Shreya Singhal (supra), the




                             129
finding, clearly of the High Court, in this regard,

appears to be unsustainable and we hold so.

138. The finding by the High Court that in the case on

hand,    in   spite       of   the    complainant      issuing   notice,

bringing it to the notice of the appellant about the

dissemination of defamatory matter on the part of the

first     accused     through         the   medium      of    appellant,

appellant did not move its little finger to block the

said    material     to    stop      dissemination     and,   therefore,

cannot claim exemption under Section 79 of the Act, as

it originally stood, is afflicted with two flaws. In

the first place, the High Court itself has found that

Section 79, as it originally was enacted, had nothing

to do with offences with laws other than the Act. We

have also found that Section 79, as originally enacted,

did not deal with the effect of other laws. In short,

since defamation is an offence under Section 499 of the

IPC, Section 79, as it stood before substitution, had

nothing    to   do    with      freeing     of   the   appellant   from

liability under the said provision. Secondly, there is



                                     130
a case for the appellant that on receipt of notice, the

appellant, as a gesture, forwarded its complaint to its

Parent Company Google LLC which called for the details

by its letter dated 06.01.2009. The complaint came to

be filed on 21.01.2009. We do not think that the High

Court was justified, therefore, in entering findings in

the manner it was done. Further, the High Court has not

taken    into     consideration         the        distinction    between

blocking and a takedown.

139. Even Section 79, as substituted with effect from

27.10.2009, denies the benefit of the exemption in a

case     where    there     is     a        conspiracy      between    the

intermediary      or    abetting       or    aiding    or   inducing    or

otherwise in the commission of the unlawful act. Again,

we notice that the case in the complaint is that there

was connivance between the accused.                      This is not a

matter    which    we     feel   could        be     considered   to   be

proceeded under Section 482 of the Cr.PC.

140. We may also notice that in the Civil Suit also, the

complainant maintains that the appellant is the service



                                   131
provider and it has abused the services provided by it

(see   paragraph   11    of   the     plaint).   Appellant   is,

undoubtedly, the second defendant whereas Google Inc.

has also been made a party as third defendant. We say

this as appellant has a case that in the Civil Suit,

the complainant has set up a case that it is Google LLC

which was the actual service provider.

PUBLICATION

141. If   defamatory    matter   is    published   as   to   who

published it, is a question of fact. As already noted,

publication involves bringing defamatory matter to the

knowledge of a person or persons other than the one who

is defamed. We would approve of the principles laid

down by Greene L.J. in Byrne (supra) that “in some

circumstances, a person by refraining from removing or

obliterating the defamatory matter, is not committing

any publication at all. In other circumstances, he may

be doing so. The test, it appears to me is this: having

regard to all the facts of the case, is the proper

inference that by not removing the defamatory matter,



                              132
the defendant really made himself responsible for its

continued presence in the place where it has been put?”

Whether there is publication, indeed involves asking

the question also as noted by the learned Judge, as to

whether there was power and the right to remove any

such matter. If despite such power, and also, ability

to remove the matter, if the person does not respond,

it would amount to publication. The said principle, in

our view, would hold good even to determine whether

there is publication under Section 499 of the IPC. The

further requirement, no doubt, is indispensable, i.e.,

it must contain imputations with the intention to harm

or with knowledge or having reasons to believe that it

will harm the reputation of the person concerned.

142. In   this   case,   the   substantial      complaint   of   the

complainant appears to be based on the refusal by the

appellant to remove the matter after being notified.

Publication would be the result even in the context of

a medium like the internet by the intermediary if it

defies    a   court   order    and    refuses   to   takedown    the



                                133
matter. This, undoubtedly, is the position even under

the decision in Shreya Singhal (supra) which has read

down   Section    79(3)(b)    and        the   Intermediary   Rules

already noted.

143. In    this   regard,    we    may     notice   the   following

statement in the complaint: -

          “Complainant most humbly and respectfully
          submits that a notice to withdraw such
          articles was issued by the Complainant
          through    it   counsel    on    09/12/2008,
          requesting Accused No. 1 & 2 to withdraw
          the above said articles and to render
          unconditional   apology   and   to   pay   a
          compensation of Rs.20.00 Cr. (Rupees Twenty
          Crores only) jointly and severally for the
          damage cause to Complainant’s reputation,
          within 15 days from the date of the receipt
          of the notice. In the said notice the
          Complainant also invited Accused No. 1 to
          visit the plants of the Complainant and
          requested to observe the way in which the
          products are manufactured and then come to
          a conclusion based on facts and science,
          office copy of the notice is filed herewith
          for kind perusal of this Hon’ble Court. The
          Notice was sent under Registered Post with
          Acknowledgment Due (R.P.A.) on 10/12/2008,
          the receipt of R.P.A.D. is filed herewith
          for kind perusal of this Hon’ble Court.
          Complainant most humbly and respectfully
          submits that through the said notice, the
          accused were reminded that their acts


                                  134
      tantamount to the offence punishable under
      Section 1208, 500 & 501 of Indian Penal
      Code. The R.P.A.D. Notice sent to Accused
      No. 1 returned un-served as the Accused
      managed to return the same as “left without
      address” and the same is filed herewith for
      the kind perusal of this Hon’ble Court. As
      a precaution, the complainant on 29.12.2008
      faxed the said notice to the accused No.
      1’s Office at Delhi, receipt of Fax is
      filed herewith for kind perusal of this
      Hon’ble Court and complainant on 17.12.2008
      faxed the said notice to the accused No.
      2’s Office at Bangalore, receipt of the fax
      is filed herewith for kind perusal of this
      Hon’ble Court. Notice sent to the Bangalore
      Office of the Accused No. 2 was duly served
      and   the  acknowledgment   card  is  filed
      herewith as a proof of the same for the
      kind perusal of this Hon’ble Court.”

    We have also noticed that in the statement given by

the Officer of the complaint before the Magistrate,

there is reference to the dispatch of the notice.

144. As noted by us, in answering the question whether

there has been publication for the purpose of criminal

libel also on the basis that despite the defamatory

matter being notified, it is not removed, the analogy

of the wall of a club or notice board of a club may not

be as such available when it comes to medium like the


                          135
internet. We have noticed that in Byrne (supra), the

test would also be whether the party having the power

to remove the allegedly defamatory matter and also the

right to remove it and being able to do it without any

difficulty defies and rejects the request. The example

of the notice board or a wall of a club, as was the

case in Byrne (supra), is not strictly available when

we are asked to apply it as such in the case of medium

like internet.

145. As was noted in Bunt (supra), in Godfrey (supra),

the receipt of the letter requesting for obliterating

the post was not in dispute and more importantly that

it could have obliterated the post, was again not in

controversy. For deciding whether there is publication,

we see merit in the exposition of law made by the

English Courts as aforesaid.

146. We have noticed that what is declared a crime in

Section 499 of the IPC is the making or publishing of

matter which defames, as described in the Section. The

making or publication must be also accompanied with the



                          136
intention or knowledge requisite as mentioned in the

Section to constitute that act a crime.

147. There was a notice, admittedly received from the

complainant by the appellant, dated 09.12.2008, calling

upon      the     appellant      to,   inter    alia,        remove    the

controversial          post (See    paragraph 9       of the    Petition

under Section 482 of the Cr.PC). It is the appellant’s

case that since it did not control the services and as

the    notice      did     not     concern   its      activities,      the

appellant        forwarded    the   legal    notice    to     its   Parent

Company for its response. Appellant further contended

before the High Court that the Parent Company, in turn,

responded to the complainant on 06.01.2009. Since, the

notice issued by the complainant did not denote the

space and services which allegedly host the defamatory

articles,        the   complainant     was   asked    to     provide   the

exact details.

148. It     is     again     the    appellant’s       case     that    the

complainant, however, proceeded to file the complaint

on 21.01.2009. We will take the appellant’s case as it



                                    137
is   projected.        Thereafter,        we    will   test        it    with

reference to the jurisdiction under Section 482 of the

Cr.PC as to whether this is a matter which can be gone

into under Section 482. To elaborate, we hold:

              As noticed by us, it can be safely concluded

     that the argument of the appellant appears to be

     acting    on    the   basis    of    the   notice      sent    by     the

     complainant      to   the     appellant,     appellant        did     not

     proceed to remove the objectionable material from

     the internet. The reason for doing this is that

     according to the appellant, appellant is not the

     intermediary      and    the    intermediary      is    the        Parent

     Company        and,     accordingly,        it    forwarded           the

     complaint of the complainant in the notice dated

     09.12.2008 to its Parent Company. It may not be

     possible for this Court to find that the High Court

     was wrong in not proceeding on the basis that the

     appellant is not the intermediary. The defence set

     up by the appellant in this case, is not a matter

     which can be gone into in proceedings under Section



                                    138
482 of the Cr.PC. As things stand, in other words,

     consequent upon the notice sent to the appellant by

     the complainant on 09.12.2008, the appellant had

     refused to or has not complied with the request on

     the    part   of   the   complainant.     As   to   whether    the

     appellant was justified in not complying with the

     request,      involves    answering     the    question   as    to

     whether the appellant was the intermediary, which

     again, in turn, as we have already held, may not be

     permissible in proceedings under Section 482 of the

     Cr.PC. Therefore, this is not an aspect which can

     form the basis for the court interfering in Section

     482 of the Cr.PC.

149. As to whether there is justification for the Parent

Company in requiring the complainant to provide the URL

so   that   the    offending    post   could   be    identified     and

dealt with and dehors it whether it could remove the

post, is again a matter, which in our view, it may not

be possible for the appellant to persuade us to hold,

could be gone into the proceedings under Section 482 of



                                 139
the Cr.PC. This also is on the basis that the Parent

Company is the intermediary. To make matters even more

clear,   even      proceeding      on   the    basis    that   the     first

accused is the originator, as defined in the Act, of

the allegedly defamatory matter, and the first accused

is not only the author but is also the publisher of

allegedly defamatory matter, and again proceeding on

the   basis     that     it   is    the    appellant,       who   is    the

intermediary and not its Parent Company, the refusal on

the   part    of   the   appellant        to   remove   the    post,    may

amount to publication on the basis of the principle

enunciated in Bryne (supra) and as applied to medium of

internet      in    Godfrey     (supra),       as   later      explained,

however, in Bunt (supra). In other words, there may be

publication within the meaning of Section 499 of the

IPC even in the case of an internet operator, if having

the power and the right and the ability to remove a

matter, upon being called upon to do so, there is a

refusal to do so. This is, no doubt, subject to Shreya

Singhal (supra)where it applies. It is also clear that



                                   140
to constitute the offence under Section 500 of the IPC,

mere publication would not suffice. As we have noted,

we cannot go into that aspect on the basis of the

notice sent on 09.12.2008 by the complainant on account

of the obstacles which we have pointed out earlier. In

other words, the disowning of the liability to remove

the   post    is     inextricably     intertwined    with     the

appellant’s denial of it being the intermediary. Also,

the question as to whether the demand for the URL and

justification for not removing, based on the same being

questions essentially relating to the facts, cannot be

gone into in Section 482 proceedings.

150. The   only    aspect,   which   really   remains,   is   the

aspect that even accepting that the appellant is an

intermediary and it had the power otherwise to accede

to the request of the appellant to remove the offending

material, the so-called right or power of the appellant

is really not a power and the right, but is nothing but

a mere illusion as assuming such powers or exercising

such a right would involve conferring of unilateral and



                               141
impermissible        adjudicatory        power,     contrary       to   the

regime     of   fundamental      right      of    free    expression     so

indispensable to the continued efficacy of the internet

as   an     open     democratic      medium.       In      other    words,

proceeding      on   the   basis    of   the     assumption     that    the

appellant is the intermediary and that it stood alerted

by   the   complainant      by     letter    dated       09.12.2008,    the

appellant has not removed the offensive posts though it

could technically remove it, therefore, it amounted to

publication and this publication attracts Section 499

of the IPC. The argument, however, is even in Section

482 of the Cr.PC, the court must qualify the right and

the power of the appellant even assuming to be the

intermediary to act freely as it would opposed to the

principles which have been evolved in regard to the

internet service provider that it is not open to it to

unilaterally decide as to what matter should be removed

and it can act so as to remove on the basis of the

request only if there is a court order. Any other view




                                   142
would make it a despot strangling the free flow of

ideas which is what the internet is all about.

151. The problem arises in this way however. It is while

considering a challenge to Section 79 of the Act, after

it   was   substituted     with   effect     from     27.10.2009   and

considering the Rules made in the year 2011 also, and a

challenge    to    the   same   also,   that    in    Shreya   Singhal

(supra), the provisions were read down to mean that

Section 79(3)(b) of the Act and Rule 3(4) of the Rules,

would require an internet service operator to takedown

third-party       information     not   on     mere    knowledge    of

objection to its continuance but after there has been

an impartial adjudication as it were by a court. To

focus more on the problem, it must be pointed out that

in the facts of this case, the acts constituting the

alleged offence under Section 499 of the IPC, were done

not when Section 79, after its substitution, was in

place. The Rules were enacted in the year 2011. In such

circumstances, what we are asked to do is to import in

the principles into the factual matrix when Section 79
 143
was differently worded and in proceedings under Section

482 of the Cr.PC. It is, undoubtedly, true that Article

19(1)(a) and Article 19(2) of the Constitution of India

were   very   much    available    in   2008   and   2009       though

Section 79 was in its erstwhile avtar. In other words,

will it not be open to the appellant, assuming it to be

the intermediary, to contend that it cannot be called

upon   to   remove,   defamatory    matter     comprised    in    any

third-party    information   without     there    being     a    court

order?

152. It is here that we would remind ourselves that we

are called upon in this case to decide the correctness

and legality of the order of the High Court passed in

the proceedings under Section 482 of the Cr.PC. This

contention, as such, has not been raised. We notice, in

fact, that in the very first ground, however, before

the High Court, it is contended that the appellant has

no role. It has no control over the services provided

on the website. Thereafter, it is contended that even

the employees of the Parent Company do not have the



                              144
ability       to    remove         the    content          posted     on      the    blog

without        an        order          from     a     court        of        competent

jurisdiction. It is the further case before the High

Court that under the law of United States of America

which governed the functioning of the Parent Company,

it is not obliged or required to remove any allegedly

defamatory content without the court order. There was

no contention taken that on the basis that even if

appellant          is    assumed         to     be    the     intermediary,           the

continuance         of       the    articles         after    a   request       by   the

complainant             to    remove          it,     would       not      constitute

publication         at       the    hands      of     the    appellant         for   the

reason that it will not constitute publication as there

is no court order in India. It was also, no doubt, true

that    the    decision            of    this       Court    in     Shreya      Singhal

(supra)       was       rendered         nearly       five     years       after      the

impugned       judgment            of    the        High     Court.      As    already

noticed, what was laid down in Shreya Singhal (supra)

was    premised upon               the challenge            to Section        79(3)(b)

which replaced the erstwhile avtar of Section 79 and



 145
also a challenge to the Intermediary Rules of 2011,

both of which provisions came to be read down by the

court.

153. What appellant is asking this Court to do is to

decide   the      point     which    is    not   even      raised     as     such

before the High Court. Having noticed the exact ground

taken    before       the    High     Court,         it   relates      to     the

inability    of       the   Parent    Company        to   remove      the    post

without the court order. However, we feel that this is

a   question      which     can     be,    independent         of   the      non-

availability of the protection under Section 79 of the

Act in its erstwhile avtar, pursued by the appellant.

This    is   a    matter     which     we      leave      it   open    to     the

appellant to urge before the Court.

154. There       is   a   complaint       by   the    appellant       that    the

Magistrate did not have territorial jurisdiction over

the appellant and the procedure under Section 203 of

the Cr.PC should have been followed. We noticed that

this contention was not raised before the High Court.

We further noticed that on this ground alone, in the



                                     146
facts of this case, after nearly a decade of the matter

pending in this Court, it would be unjust to remand the

matter back to the Magistrate, which we must indeed

note, was one of the submissions of the appellant.

155. The upshot of the above discussion is as follows:

1. We reject the contention of the appellant that the

  High   Court   should    have   acted   on    the     Google   LLC

  conditions and found that the appellant is not the

  intermediary.   We     hold   that   this    is   a   matter   for

  trial.

2. We hold that Section 79 of the Act, prior to its

  substitution,    did    not   protect   an    intermediary      in

  regard to the offence under Section 499/500 of the

  IPC.

3. We set aside the findings by the High Court regarding

  the alleged refusal of the appellant to respond to

  the notice to remove. We make it clear, however, that

  it is for the Court to decide the matter on the basis

  of the materials placed before it, and taking into




                                147
  consideration,     the   observations     contained    in    this

  judgment.

156. We leave open the contentions of the parties except

those which we have finally pronounced upon. Subject to

the   above,   the   Magistrate     shall   proceed     with    the

complaint. The appeal stands disposed of as aforesaid.



                                             ……………………………….J.
                                            (Ashok Bhushan)




                                             …………………………………J.
                                            (K.M. Joseph)
New Delhi;
December 10, 2019.


                              148












