









Sukdeen Khan vs State Of U.P. on 21 December, 2022



Share Link
Mobile View



Premium Members
Advanced Search
Case Removal








 Cites 7 docs 
      
        - [View All]
      
      
Section 174A in The Indian Penal Code
Section 82 in The Code Of Criminal Procedure,   1973
Section 313 in The Code Of Criminal Procedure,   1973
Section 229A in The Indian Penal Code
Section 120B in The Indian Penal Code

















Warning on Translation





Take notes as you read a judgment using our Virtual Legal Assistant and get email alerts whenever a new judgment matches your query (Query Alert Service). Try out our Premium Member services -- Free for one month.

Allahabad High Court
Sukdeen Khan vs State Of U.P. on 21 December, 2022Bench: Shree Prakash Singh





HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD, LUCKNOW BENCH
 
 

?Court No. - 27
 

 
Case :- CRIMINAL MISC. BAIL APPLICATION No. - 4292 of 2021
 

 
Applicant :- Sukdeen Khan
 
Opposite Party :- State of U.P.
 
Counsel for Applicant :- Rahul Kumar Dubey,Ram Janam Chaudhary
 
Counsel for Opposite Party :- Govt. Advocate
 

 
Hon'ble Shree Prakash Singh,J.

Heard learned counsel for the applicant, Sri Brijesh Kumar Singh-I, learned A.G.A. for the State and perused the record. 

The instant bail application has been filed on behalf of the applicant with a prayer to release the applicant on bail during the trial in Case Crime No. 0005 of 2020, under Sections 419, 420, 120B IPC & 66(C), 66(D) Information Technology Act, P.S.- Ciber Crime, District - Lucknow. 

Learned counsel appearing for the applicant submits that the applicant is not named in the FIR and his name came into light on the confessional statement of co-accused, namely, Sharafat Khan. He next added that there is no cogent piece of evidence so as to connect him for demand of ransom is concerned. He further added that only one mobile phone has been recovered from the possession of the present applicant but the police could not connect the aforesaid recovery in the instant matter. He next added that the name of the applicant has been planted by the police only on the hearsay basis and confessional statement and in fact the present applicant was not involved in the committing the offence. He next added that charge sheet has been filed, as such there is no possibility fleeing the applicant and tampering with the evidences. Adding his argument he submits that the applicant has no criminal antecedent which he has explained in para 21 of the bail application and he is languishing in jail since 23.10.2020. In case, he is granted bail, he will not misuse the liberty and would cooperate in the trial proceedings. 

Learned counsel for the applicant further added that identically situated co-accused, namely, Sharafat Khan has already been enlarged on bail in Criminal Misc. Bail Application No.1450 of 2021, vide order dated 19.11.2022. The applicant is seeking parity of the order aforesaid. 

Per contra, learned A.G.A. opposed the prayer of bail and submits that present applicant was involved in committing the offence and there is substantial evidence against him after thorough investigation was done by the Investigating Officer, as such, he is not entitled for bail but he could not dispute the fact that identically situated co-accused has been granted bail. 

Having heard the learned counsel for the parties and after perusal of record, it is evident that there is no cogent piece of evidence so as to connect him in the instant matter and only one mobile phone has been recovered from the possession of the present applicant but the police could not connect with the instant matter; further charge sheet has been filed and there is no possibility of applicant fleeing away or tempering with the evidence; further criminal history of the applicant has been explained aforesaid, coupled with the fact that he is languishing in jail since 23.10.2020, thus without commenting on the merits of the case, I find it a fit case for bail. 

Let the applicant - Sukdeen Khan involved in the aforementioned crime be released on bail, on his furnishing a personal bond and two sureties each in the like amount, to the satisfaction of the court concerned, with the following conditions:- 

(1) The applicant shall not tamper with the prosecution evidence by intimidating/ pressurizing the witnesses, or otherwise during the investigation or trial; 

(2) The applicant shall file an undertaking to the effect that he shall not seek any adjournment on the dates fixed for evidence when the witnesses are present in court. He shall remain present before the trial court on each date fixed, either personally or through his counsel. In case of his absence, without sufficient cause, the trial court may proceed against him under Section 229-A of the Indian Penal Code; 

(3) The applicant shall remain present, in person, before the trial court on the dates fixed for (i) opening of the case, (ii) framing of charge and (iii) recording of statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C.; and 
 
(4) In case, the applicant misuses the liberty of bail during trial and in order to secure his presence proclamation under Section 82 Cr.P.C. is issued and the applicant fails to appear before the court on the date fixed in such proclamation, the trial court shall initiate proceedings against him, in accordance with law under Section 174-A of the Indian Penal Code. 

The identity, status and residential proof of sureties will be verified by the court concerned and in case of breach of any of the above conditions, the court below shall be at liberty to cancel the bail and send the applicant to prison. 

It is clarified that the observations made in this order are strictly confined to the disposal of this bail application and must not be construed to have any reflection on the merits of the case. 

Order Date :- 21.12.2022
 
KR
 
(Shree Prakash Singh,J.)
 



 




 

 
 
    
      
  
 











